Can you even fathom what's happening, like...?
You know what I'm saying? This is so...
fucking crazy.
Quincy Jones' house, man.
Believe it?
So much history in here.
Hey, baby. What a pleasure, man.
[Dr. Dre] Thank you so much for doing this.
It's The Pharmacy with Dr. Dre, special edition.
-Yes, it is. -'Cause we have the legend of all legends.
Quincy Jones. The legendary Quincy Jones.
Man, y'all making me sound old.
-My ultimate mentor and inspiration. -Don't even know how to drive.
[Dr. Dre laughs] That's all right.
You're the reason why I decided to get into production.
-So proud of him, my man. -Yeah, thank you.
-Thank you so much. -No, I mean that, man.
[Dr. Dre] So, I really wanted to know
what type of struggles you had and what did you have to go through?
I wasn't born in Bel Air, man. I'm from the South Side of Chicago, man.
In the '30s, man, during the Depression, damn, you kidding?
We lost my mother when I was seven,
and my brother and I, we were, like, we were street rats, you know?
I wanted to be a gangster till I was 11.
Wow.
-You want to be what you see. -Right.
And that's all we ever saw.
You see that right there?
I went on the wrong street and they took a switchblade
-and nailed my hand to a fence, man. -What?
Seven years old.
-See this one here? -Yeah.
That's an ice pick, man.
Wow.
To know where you came from makes it easier for you to get where you're going.
And I learned a long time ago that
your music can never be more or less than you are as a human being.
And that's very true.
Wow, I... You know what? I'm sitting here, just,
really tripping the fuck out, man. You are so...
-[laughter] -You are so inspiring, man.
It's like... like, do you know who you are, man? [laughs]
It's Quincy Jones!
Mr. Quincy Jones.
The first thing is to be humble with your creativity
and graceful with your success.
♪ Everybody take it to the top... ♪ You can't live without water or music. You can't live without it.
You can't live without water or music. You can't live without it.
Between Ray Charles and Sinatra, I learned how to live.
Sinatra wore it for 40 years himself and then he left it to me
and I never take it off.
Quincy Jones!
What sign are you?
What sign are you?
What's your birth sign?
Pisces. It's the same, we're both crazy.
[woman] Gemini.
Oh, God. Miles Davis and Prince.
I've been in this business 70 years.
It's unbelievable.
Hey, baby.
I got six daughters and one son. That's why I don't have any hair.
-What a great treat to see you here. -You too, man.
-How you been, man? -I've been good, man, yeah.
Great. We've been doing concerts this year.
You're kickin' ass.
-Life's a motherfucker, isn't it, man? -Oh, yeah.
Pressure's on. Quincy's here.
Help!
How are you, guys?
I can party all the time. Never had a problem with that.
-What? -I can't be like you, I cannot...
hang out all night and then... No, I can't do that.
Don't try to do what he's done.
-[man] Yeah. -No, 'cause you'll get your ass killed.
[slurring] We worked the balls off a pool table.
-Right, honey? -[Rashida] Yeah, Dad.
You must be so tired.
-Honey, I'm past tired. -Oh, Dad.
I couldn't even stand up for the second number.
They gave us some serious wine, honey.
[Rashida] I know, but six bottles?! How you gonna get it back?
We're gonna drink it here.
-Are you shooting, honey? -I am.
I'm just learning. I'm not great with a camera, I'm just learning how.
-Cute shoes, Dad. -[Quincy] Thank you, honey.
-Cute shoes, Dad. -[Quincy] Thank you, honey. -[Rashida] Really cute. -[Quincy] Pimp shoes.
-[Rashida] Really cute. -[Quincy] Pimp shoes.
[Rashida] Do you think it's easier to be up late in LA, to work by yourself?
-Yeah, absolutely. -[Rashida] 'Cause nobody's up, right?
Absolutely.
Well, nobody's up that late anyway, so I always wrote at night.
-[Rashida] Right. -The muses come out then, you know?
-Right. -Everybody used to say,
"Keep your score paper and pen right near you, 'cause if you're not up, God will take it down the street to Mancini."
'cause if you're not up, God will take it down the street to Mancini."
-[Rashida laughing] -It's very true, honey.
Haven't been sleeping a lot.
-Been sleeping a lot, or haven't? -I haven't been sleeping a lot, no.
Too much on my mind, you know. It's hard to turn it off.
But let me ask you a question. Do you think you could drink in moderation?
But let me ask you a question. Do you think you could drink in moderation? -Do you think you could-- -Yeah, I do.
-Do you think you could-- -Yeah, I do.
Or do you think it's a slippery slope, honestly?
No, no, no, it's not a slippery slope at all. No.
But I want one badder than ever now.
-[Rashida] You want what? -A drink.
[Bono] Dino, get me a bourbon.
Where's Q? Where's my... Where are ya?
Oh, yeah! Come on!
Oh, yeah!
The seven of us all together.
We're all family.
-[woman] Thank you very much. -Thank you.
-[Quincy] You know the palindromes? -[Rashida] Mm-hmm.
Just found a good one.
"Go hang a salami, I'm a lasagna hog."
Go... hang... a salami.
[Quincy laughing] I love those.
-These are amazing, did you try these? -No.
I wonder what's wrong with my appetite though. Something's wrong.
[Rashida] Really, Dad?
-'Cause you know me, I can eat, honey. -I know, I don't like that.
Yeah, but it's okay.
It's all right. It'll be all right, honey.
No... If you don't feel good, you gotta take care of it.
I will, I will.
My mother had gone away sick one day.
She kicked and screamed as they threw a straitjacket on her and carried her out.
And just like that, she was gone.
Daddy was a carpenter for the Jones Boys,
the black gangsters that ran the ghetto back in Chicago.
We fought, we stole, we ran with gangs and from gangs.
By that time, I was carrying a knife
and doing whatever I thought I had to do to survive.
Why not?
My world seemed to be senseless.
If my mother could go crazy, who couldn't?
Daddy was in over his head
and took us to stay with his mother.
Grandma was a former slave.
She cooked whatever she could get her hands on.
Mustard greens, okra, possums, and rats.
We ate them because that's all there was to eat.
My mother broke out a couple of times, and I remember, downstairs,
we heard the glass breaking,
and Daddy said, "Sit down to the table and don't get up."
He said, "It's your mama."
Kids kept telling me, "'Cause your mother's really messed up,
and if she gets out, she's gonna kill you guys," you know?
And so I started to picture her and associate her with a death threat.
When she got out one time, she came and we saw her running to us.
We screamed and we ran about seven blocks,
we were so afraid, you know?
I said, "I can't depend on a mother 'cause I don't have one,
so I don't need one," you know?
I was happy that Daddy said,
"We're leaving town, we're leaving now.
We're getting on a Trailway bus and getting out of here."
[doctor] Do you know the year?
Do you know what year it is?
-[Quincy] What year? -Yeah. Mm-hmm.
[Quincy] No.
[doctor] Okay, it will come back. It will.
[doctor] Well, we had the new year, so it's 2015.
I get it, yeah.
And the seventh was when you got unconscious, because it's now the eleventh.
So you lost four days out of your life.
Who is the president?
-What? -Who's the president of the US?
What's his name?
Do you remember?
[Quincy] Sarah Palin.
[doctor] I'm glad... I'm glad some things haven't changed. [man] Oh.
You have any idea what happened to you?
[Quincy] No.
[doctor] You were drinking too much.
And when you came in that night, you were having trouble breathing,
your temperature was 103, and your sugar was close to 1,000.
You have to be on a low-sugar diet.
Amazingly tough guy, huh?
-[woman] Yeah. -[man] That's for sure.
You guys are so supportive, baby.
I love them, so that's why I got my shit together quick.
It was really scary.
I'm grateful to get that wake-up call.
You know, grateful.
After the operation, in the hospital and everything,
my mind went to another place, honey.
And you reflect on things you never thought about before.
Like what?
Vodka.
That ain't gonna be no more.
Nope.
Not going out.
Not yet.
When I go out, I'll be ready.
I'll be ready for it. Yeah.
-[man] Happy birthday, Q. -Thank you, man. Thanks for coming by.
-[woman] Love you. -[Quincy] Love you too, honey.
-Love you, honey. -Love you, Daddy. Me, too.
Love you, Dad.
[woman] Smile, Dad. There you go, perfect.
That's a whole lot of love.
[all] ♪ Happy birthday Happy birthday to ya ♪
♪ Happy birthday to ya ♪
♪ Happy birthday! ♪
-Thank you guys so much. -[cheering]
I gotta tell you, I wish everybody here...
a long, long, long-ass life...
filled with a whole lot of, um...
tons of...
let's say...
love to share...
health to spare, and friends who care, 'cause that's really all that's important
when you get down to it, to the bottom of it.
-I love you from the bottom of my heart. -[women] We love you!
-[applause] -[woman] Make a wish.
[Quincy] Daddy found us a little house in Washington state.
He grabbed the toolbox and joined the long line of black folks
marching down the hill to the naval shipyard.
He was a workaholic.
He tried to do everything he could to make sure it worked, you know.
I was on shaky waters with identity as a child anyway,
because, without Mama there, you're not quite sure what's going down.
At the time, we're talking about the '40s, in the school books, black people didn't exist.
in the school books, black people didn't exist.
We didn't know who we wanted to be like.
There was nobody to see that you wanted to be like, you know.
One night, I broke into the armory.
In the room, there was an old upright piano.
I tinkled on it for a moment,
and I knew this was it for me, forever.
I was in heaven.
I took up percussion, trombone, sousaphone, B-flat baritone horn, French horn,
sousaphone, B-flat baritone horn, French horn, but I decided I wanted to play trumpet.
I couldn't get enough.
Just that idea, to see black men that were dignified and proud.
I said, "That's what I want to be.
I want to be in that family, I'd do anything to be in that family."
I used to hang backstage with Count Basie and Clark Terry.
I know I used to bother them to death,
and they were kind enough to stop and say, "Okay, here's how you do it."
And they helped me.
And I started to play in a band when we were 14 years old
and worked in the nightclubs.
And after we finished, we used to go off and jam all night playing bebop.
And that's where everybody was talking about this guy named R.C.,
and he was 16 years old then.
I was new in town and this 14-year-old cat comes up to me.
He said, "I'm Quincy Jones and I play trumpet, and I want to write."
We hit it off right away.
[Quincy] Ray was so wise when he was 16,
and you know how it is, when you have an older buddy
that seems to have all the answers for everything.
He'd say, "Every music has its own soul, Quincy.
It doesn't matter what style it is, just be true to it."
[Ray Charles] He's truly like a brother to me.
In my mind, I sort of adopted him like my brother.
[Quincy] By then, I had seriously discovered girls.
I discovered the ladies not in the same way I discovered music,
but enough to win the heart of a beautiful girl named Jeri Caldwell
from my high school.
Night after night, as I wandered in and out of clubs, bars, and juke joints
with my trumpet beneath my arm and my scores tucked beneath my shirt,
a tiny glint of something new began to emerge in my life.
Something I'd never had before.
I had no control over where I lived, no control over my sick mother.
I couldn't control the angry whites
who still called me "nigger" when they caught me alone on the street.
But music was one thing I could control.
It was the one thing that offered me my freedom.
Lionel Hampton was like a god in those days.
He had the rockin'-est band in America.
When he said, "Young huss, you wanna join my band?"
I said, "Yes, sir!"
I was in the band!
Lionel Hampton would pass out an itinerary of our schedule.
Seventy straight nights.
We worked non-stop, not one night off.
At that time, all of the black bands had white bus drivers
to go in the restaurants to get the food to bring it back to the band.
We hit some city in Texas, and in the middle of the city,
there's this small church,
and there was a rope with a black dummy hanging off of the steeple.
This was everyday stuff then.
You know you just better be careful.
And the best thing that ever happened to me was traveling.
As soon as we got off the plane, wherever it was, you know, Paris,
Turkey, Pakistan, Casablanca...
I made it my business to get right into the lifestyle
I made it my business to get right into the lifestyle of the real people in the country.
Is there some vodka?
No, it's in there.
Why no-- why no vodka?
Thank you, baby.
-So sweet. -[Rashida] I'm nervous about Europe.
I don't... Forget it, honey.
-I don't even want wine. -Really?
-Nothing wrong with that. -You're not gonna want...
-It's not gonna be... -No.
-I don't think so, I think he feels okay. -It's been five, six months.
It's not even in my body anymore.
-Not even the temptation, honey. -Good.
The girls are the only temptation.
Give it up for my brother, D'Angelo.
Mary J. Blige!
My brother, Carlos Santana!
-Boo! -Hey, man, my baby. -Hey, Herbie. -Hey, Q.
-Hey, Herbie. -Hey, Q. -How you doin', man? -Good. Missing you, man.
-How you doin', man? -Good. Missing you, man.
-You look great. -[Quincy] I lost 50 pounds.
Congratulations, man!
-Thank you, sir, how-- -You started it.
[Quincy] Bonsoir.
Merci.
I just wanted to say first, tonight,
how much I appreciate being a part of this family.
Very much so. Thank you.
These next two incredible human beings, Chick Corea and Herbie Hancock!
Mon frère.
-Hey, Herbie. -Hey.
-You got it? -Got it.
All right. All right.
I'm really, really happy how good you're looking, man.
Thank you, man.
Follow him. He told me a long time ago, I didn't listen.
He told me to stop drinking.
-I worked on him for a while. -He did! Ten years ago, man.
I said to Herbie, "You must be crazy."
Man, I've had less hair many times.
-Brain operations and shit. -Oh, yeah.
-They're not getting you this time! -Hell, no.
You got a new "get out of jail free" card.
That's right. -A government pass. [laughs] -Yeah!
[Quincy] Oh, amazing city.
It's beautiful how your memories stick with you, and the cities you love.
-[Rashida] Does it hurt to leave? -Yeah. It always hurts to leave.
But I know I'll be back, though.
[Rashida] Dad, how do you deal with your ego and your art?
You know...
you need confidence, sure.
-That's... I'm not denying that. -[Rashida] Yeah.
But the... an ego is usually just, uh...
overdressed... insecurity.
I think you have to dream so big that you can't get an ego.
'Cause you'll never fulfill all those dreams.
There's always more to come and learn.
I learned a lot from the old guys, too.
[Quincy] I left the Lionel Hampton Band and I was off to New York City
[Quincy] I left the Lionel Hampton Band and I was off to New York City to follow my dream of composing and arranging.
I lived with my wife, Jeri, and our baby, Jolie.
This music called bebop was being created in New York,
and I was dying to get closer to it.
I'd hang out at Birdland, or other bars and clubs,
always looking for the next job.
I wrote for anybody who would pay.
I met a singer named Dinah Washington and she became a great friend to me.
Dinah said, "I want you to write my next record."
Her label, Mercury Records, said, "Nope, we want a name."
Dinah said, "Here's a name for your ass.
Dinah Washington, and Quincy Jones is my arranger."
The record was a big success.
After that, the work started to flow.
I did hundreds of arrangements and recordings
with the absolute best in the business.
Louis Armstrong,
Count Basie,
Sarah Vaughan,
Clark Terry,
Dizzy Gillespie,
and my buddy, Ray Charles.
To really describe the true soul in his arrangements,
I can't really put it into words.
It's just a feeling that you can feel it all down in here,
and before you know it, you're tapping your toe, you know?
[Quincy] With the work came money, and with the money came temptations.
Women and money and work came together
and I embraced them all.
I was at a higher altitude than I had ever dreamed possible.
But I didn't know what was coming.
My mother had searched for me for years before finding me.
God knows how she did it.
She was a schizophrenic. Dementia praecox, they call it.
I remember the first time I played in Birdland with my own big band,
and that is really a serious dream to come true.
My mother came,
and when she walks in the door, boy, you know, you can't ignore her.
I knew she was gonna raise hell. So she came in and people said,
"Sorry, ma'am, but you can't come in here without a ticket."
She just said, "Get out of the way!"
I'm on the bandstand, trying to look cool,
and it was pitiful.
I was so embarrassed.
She said, "God doesn't like sinners.
Make music for God only or you'll be redeemed in hell."
I just closed down.
Count Basie was like a father to me.
"Learn to deal with the valleys, Quincy," he advised.
"The hills will take care of themselves."
I wanted to write different kinds of music, you know, more than just jazz.
Because in those days, in New York,
they wouldn't let the black arrangers write for strings.
I moved to Paris in 1957 so that I could study with Nadia Boulanger,
the queen of classical music.
This was a lady that was Igor Stravinsky's mentor,
This was a lady that was Igor Stravinsky's mentor, and she also taught Leonard Bernstein.
I said, "I really want to know  everything I can about orchestration."
Her words stick with me a lot.
She said, "Quincy, there are only 12 notes.
There really are only 12 notes,
and you should really investigate what everybody did with these 12 notes."
And I never forgot that.
In Paris, I did 200 sessions with huge string sections
In Paris, I did 200 sessions with huge string sections and wrote for strings until it came out of my ears.
France made me feel free as an artist and as a black man.
-[Quincy] Got so much shit going on. -Yeah.
That's an understatement, isn't it? What's next?
[Adam] Uh, the contracts.
-I shouldn't sign this? -Um, no, I wouldn't.
-Okay. -Not yet. Not until he sends you something that's even remotely acceptable.
Not until he sends you something that's even remotely acceptable.
-Great magazine. Jesus. -[Adam] Isn't it awesome?
Does it say anything on the Internet?
Who else is involved in that?
It's an understatement to say that.
Put that in there too.
How you doing, honey?
-What you got, some pills? -Yeah.
-I'll take 'em. -You have...? Okay.
I'll definitely take 'em.
[man] What else is on the list?
The African-American Museum Smithsonian.
Uh, they want you to produce a TV special for the opening.
Oh, the African-American Smithsonian Institute, um, right in front of the Lincoln Memorial.
And they asked me to produce it?
Then I'm gonna produce it.
It's very...
special, though.
[man] Yeah, it's a pretty incredible honor that you're--
-Yeah, we gotta kill it, man. -Who do you want for this show?
It should be the top of every... category.
Well, my immediate choice would be Oprah, Will, and Jazzy Jeff.
-Okay, add Will Smith and DJ Jazzy Jeff. -[man] Yep.
[Quincy] Mary J. Blige.
John Legend.
-You want Herbie, right? -Oh, for always.
We should send a "save the date"... -[man] To all these people -To all these artists.
[Quincy] Yeah, definitely.
Stevie for sure.
Usher.
My brother, Colin Powell.
Dave Chappelle.
Naturally, we should have the First Lady and President on there.
[woman] So cool, man... So cool!
These are important moments in history and we're getting to watch how it goes down.
and we're getting to watch how it goes down. It's exciting.
Another serious challenge.
God...
I love how I always end up jumping into all this stuff, I can't believe it.
Because it's not easy.
Daddy got me to do that.
He always said, "Once a... task has just begun, never leave it till it's done.
Be the labor great or small, do it well or not at all."
Every day, he told us that.
[Quincy] In 1959, I had assembled a dream big band
[Quincy] In 1959, I had assembled a dream big band for a show called Free and Easy.
It was the greatest band I could ever dream of.
After six weeks, the show closed.
I couldn't stand it.
So I stood up and told the band,
"Let's stay here and tough it out."
Every single one of them agreed.
But after ten months of hauling 30 people across Europe, I started to break down.
We were stuck over there.
I had no money. I didn't know what to do.
It was time to go home.
The band and myself, we'd like to say auf Wiedersehen, au revoir, and goodbye.
For the first time in my adult life,
I went out and got me a real job.
I was working as an executive at Mercury Records trying to get from under the $145,000 debt from the Free and Easy tour.
trying to get from under the $145,000 debt from the Free and Easy tour.
I said, "Well, pop music is not that big a deal, you know, to do."
And they just kept saying, "Well, why don't you do something about it?"
It turned out to be a little harder than I thought.
Plowing through piles of demo tapes, listening to bad songs.
One afternoon, they tossed a tape down the table.
I said, "I'd like to take a shot with this."
It was a 16-year-old kid from New Jersey named Lesley Gore.
We cut a single called "It's My Party".
[Quincy] It went to number one.
We had 18 hits with Lesley.
It was hard being married to Quincy, you know.
There was so much infidelity
and he had so much ambition, and that got in the way.
And I always felt he loved me, but I was the wife at home and he went out,
but I was the wife at home and he went out, and he had a lot of good times without me,
and he grew in ways that I wasn't growing.
That was why we got divorced.
[Quincy] I had messed that marriage up.
Like my daddy before me,
I focused on work.
[Quincy] Man, let's hang.
-Okay. -I'm serious, man.
-You serious? -There ain't many of us left!
-Is there? -You got it.
[Quincy] Miss ya, man.
Q... How you feelin', boss?
Q... How you feelin', boss? -Thank you for the other night, man. -Oh, any time.
-Thank you for the other night, man. -Oh, any time. -It was great. -Any time.
-Hey, baby. -Hey.
-[Quincy] How old are you now? -Eighty-nine!
I'm right behind you.
How are you, sweetheart?
-I'm really good. -You're burning, girl!
-Hey, baby. -Hey, man.
These cats been dropping out of here like flies, man.
[man] I don't like it.
Jesus Christ, man, we lost Louis Johnson, Lesley Gore, Clark Terry.
It don't stop. George Duke, Joe Sample. It's fuckin' insane, man.
Insane.
Tonight, we are gathered together to honor...
and pay tribute to my dear, dear friend
and present him with this year's humanitarian award.
God bless all of you people for being here tonight.
You have no idea what you've done to this... to make this soul smile tonight.
It's just unbelievable and it's, uh...
I'm only 82, you know, so...
I was very ill at the beginning of this year... and...
they... say that cliché, you know, "I almost died."
Well, I did.
And then I got a...
email from heaven, and it said, "Brother Jones,
we already got Ray Charles, Frank Sinatra, Charlie Parker, Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, and stuff.
Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, and stuff. We don't need any more headaches up here, man.
Stay home. Keep your black booty home."
[Quincy] I was sitting in my office one day in New York in '64 and the phone rang.
I picked it up.
I heard him say, "This is Frank Sinatra.
I like what you and Basie did together and I'd like you to arrange and conduct my next album,
and I'd like you to arrange and conduct my next album,
It Might As Well Be Swing.
That call from Frank was a major turning point in my career and my life.
He tested me in the beginning.
And he said, "That instrumentation's a little too...
dense in the first eight bars."
I said, "No problem, man."
Well, he'd go ten feet away where there was a table or a desk,
and he'd fix it in no time.
It always amazed me that a man could do that,
change all of those notes that he had written before.
[Quincy] He was shocked, 'cause I was 29, right?
He was used to working with guys that were 50.
After that, it was total trust, man.
Total trust.
I would like to have you meet a gentleman
I would like to have you meet a gentleman who's been doing these marvelous orchestrations for me,
Mr. Quincy Jones, right there.
Q, Mr. Quincy Jones.
One of the bright young stars in the orchestrating business.
Q, go ahead.
[Quincy] Frank was just my style.
He was hip, straight-up and straight-ahead, and above all, a monster musician.
Quincy's drive is what made the difference in the recordings that I began to do.
The orchestra drove harder than they did before the days with Quincy.
[Quincy] Frank was at the height of his powers and I was running his musical ship,
the greatest band in the world. ♪ I love you ♪
[Sinatra] We became very fast friends, forgetting about all the work we had to do.
[Quincy] Frank led me into a brand new world...
...a land of dreams and high living, anything you felt like doing, whenever you felt like doing it.
anything you felt like doing, whenever you felt like doing it.
And making the music we both loved.
[Quincy] During this time, I was with some of the finest women in the world
and had a brief affair with a dancer named Carol.
My second lovely daughter, Rachel, was born as a result.
It was a mind-boggling time.
The astronauts on Apollo 10 took a little tape recorder along with them
and they played that tune back to Earth from about 150,000 miles in space.
[astronaut] This is just so that you guys don't forget what your job is down there.
We're ready.
[crackly Sinatra] ♪ Fly me to the moon Let me play among the stars... ♪ [Quincy] Frank called up when they played that music on the moon, like a little kid.
[Quincy] Frank called up when they played that music on the moon, like a little kid.
"Can you believe that, man?" I said, "No, man, the first music on the moon?
Give me a break, man." You can't plan that!
Frank was so buzzed about Basie's band
that he took the entire band to Las Vegas in 1964.
Vegas was mob territory back then.
No black entertainer in their right mind
would wander around those casino hotels alone.
It was a trip 'cause Sammy Davis, or Lena Horne, Belafonte,
they used to work in the big room as the stars, but they had to eat in the kitchen.
They couldn't go in the casino
and they had to sleep in the black hotels across town.
[Sinatra] Bigotry is a terrible disease, it's a very bad disease.
I began to make noise about it.
I said, "If they all have to live on the other side of town,
then you don't need me."
Suddenly, it changed. And I can't explain to you what happened.
[Quincy] Frank, by himself, stopped all that.
He said, "We're gonna fix this shit."
And he did.
He took Sammy, Basie, and myself and changed the whole racial situation.
[Sinatra] Working with Basie and Quincy was the most exciting engagement
I have ever done in my life since I've been performing. ♪ Please be kind ♪
Quincy had a key to the Basie band...
more than any other orchestrator that I know of.
And I began to realize that he was a giant.
[Quincy] I loved him, man.
I know he loved me too.
In all the years working together, just like with Ray Charles,
we never once had a contract... just a handshake.
[Sinatra] Quincy turned out to be...
one of the finest musicians that I've ever known.
[Quincy] After my time with Frank, I wanted to move out of New York
and get into LA film scoring.
I didn't see blacks' names on the screens, you know, as composers.
There weren't any black composers at all.
So I just took that chance.
I said, "I don't know, maybe I won't make it out there, but I'm goin'."
A friend of mine was doing a movie,
and he said, "They're thinking about Quincy Jones for a movie."
I said, "Yes, great, great."
He said, "Can black men write movie music?"
I said, "Of course they can!"
[Quincy] There was a lot of reluctance... "How can you write for a white star?"
I thought that it was just a dream that I'd have to hold on to.
First of all, thank you very much for being...
-My pleasure, man. -It's an honor.
I've been with The Post for a long time.
Why do you think it's taken so long to get this thing done?
'Cause I read that it was like 1905 when they started talking about it.
But it's taken a long time to keep them from shootin' black kids.
This happens... Probably last night it happened. Come on.
'Cause the racism has been buried and hidden, you know.
In the South, it's open, you know who you're dealing with, but in the North,
it's disguised with all the bullshit, you know. -[Geoff] Yeah. -And that's the problem.
So, this museum... There are millions of museums here
but why is that museum so important right now?
Well, young black kids need to know where they come from.
Bebop, doo-wop, and hip hop, and all that stuff is all sociological, you know.
Hopefully, the juice that we generate about the museum is gonna help.
-Yeah. -They say, "Hey, you gotta be part of this
for the young kids of tomorrow."
-[Geoff] Yeah. -That's what's important for me.
-What-- -'Cause it's big, man.
It's something I've wanted all my life to see.
Can you tell me a little bit about what's gonna happen?
-No. -No? It's a total secret?
-Nothing. -Under wraps? -Nothing. -[Geoff] Okay.
-Nothing. -[Geoff] Okay.
It's not a surprise if I tell you.
So I don't get anything, no Stevie Wonder there or anything?
-Tack så mycket. -Varsågod.
-[camera shutter clicking] -Lookin' good.
[Quincy] ♪ Brother, brother, brother... ♪
And do it to the camera, yeah.
[photographer] Can I take one more? Sitting, exactly like that.
Yeah.
-[photographer] I'm fine, I'm happy. -You cool? Good.
I'm tired, man, I'm sorry.
-It's an honor, thank you so much. -My pleasure. Tack så mycket.
[Quincy] When composers get started on a film,
I think they spend the roughest parts of it scraping away...
the bullshit, you know, in their life.
They have to really scrape away so there's nothing left but truth.
Because I don't think you can write, can't create anything without...
feeling right with the truth.
You have to find something to grab a hold of to believe in, or you can't write.
I can't say, "This'll be good enough," or your senses won't react.
You make a desperate escape to get down into the subconscious,
which I really think all the goodies come from.
After you finish the quiet moments of writing,
I just like to groove with my family then, and enjoy all of it.
My wife, Ulla, she's from Stockholm originally,
and we have two kids that I just can't stay away from for two minutes.
My biggest hobby is my family.
It's a complete contrast to when we go in to record.
-[man] Ready with the playback, Quincy. -Thank you.
[Quincy] It's such a moment of tension when you're trying to coordinate so many elements...
when we're involved with technicians, lots of musicians and...
lots of money being spent per hour, and so the pace tightens up.
Three and four, a 56.
Everything has to come into play at that time.
It's just beginning to become so that it isn't such a sensationalism
to see interracial love relationships or even, uh...
uh, the role of where the black man really plays the role of a man,
rather than just a character.
[Quincy] But as my career began to move forward...
my relationship with Ulla was starting to show cracks.
I never came close to being a perfect father.
But I always, always loved my kids deeply.
One day, Ulla announced she was going to visit her mother in Sweden.
I didn't want her to take the kids along but there was no arguing.
A week later, Ulla called from Sweden and adamantly proclaimed that she was not coming back, period.
and adamantly proclaimed that she was not coming back, period.
She was staying there and keeping the kids.
My heart fell to my feet.
I couldn't handle it.
-[Quincy] What time do we start? -Now, sir.
Let's hit it.
-Hur mår du pappa? -Skit bra.
So, you have an incredible work ethic,
and, I mean, I've never seen anything like it.
I mean, at no point in my life have I ever been able to hang with you 24/7 and I can keep up.
have I ever been able to hang with you 24/7 and I can keep up.
It's-- it's crazy.
Where did that come from? And what is in your water?
It's probably from not having a mother.
You know, really, yeah.
At seven, we were, like, deserted. They took her away to this mental home.
And my grandmother was an ex-slave, you know.
America's just trying to get over that-- that part of their history
America's just trying to get over that-- that part of their history 'cause it was terrible, terrible, man, and we experienced it, you know.
'cause it was terrible, terrible, man, and we experienced it, you know.
Ray Charles and I used to say, back in the '40s,
"Not one drop of my self-worth depends on your acceptance of me."
Because you can't be that vulnerable.
Not back then, the '30s and '40s. The '50s, man?! You kidding?
Oh, hey, look at this, man!
You know I love that.
Jesus Christ, I'll take it.
They're killing me!
Sometimes I step in too deep. Like, look at that.
We go to Georgia, the Black Sea Festival in Georgia, Russia.
Then we go to Zurich.
Then...
the big one, the Smithsonian.
We produce the Smithsonian, African-American Museum.
Obama, uh, he cuts the ribbon at noon.
And we come back at night and do a two-hour special
that's got the whole history, almost, of black music.
-Wow. -It's a hard job.
But I mean, my whole life has been like that, though. I like that.
Look at that architecture. God damn, baby!
I want you to give it up for Alfredo Rodriguez. Alfredo!
[Colbert] Is there a commonality between these artists you worked with?
Yes. Individuality,
distinctive personalities, and sounds.
Ray Charles, Count Basie, Clark Terry,
they put me on their shoulders, so it's an honor for me
to put the young people on my shoulders. It is an honor.
How you doing, man? You doing okay?
Welcome. Hur mar du.
First time here in the office?
-In the office, yeah. -Yeah.
-Sweden, 63 years. -Yeah, I know it.
Oh, man.
You going to save the record business?
-Hopefully, that's what we hope for. -It needs some saving.
-Justin Kauflin, come on. Give it up. -[cheering]
-It's good to see you. -You guys are bad motherfuckers, man.
-Oh, boy. -You are the future, brother.
That is the power of music, to bring the people of the world together.
Look at these cars, man. Look at this.
That's just Chicago in the '30s, man.
[woman] Mr. Quincy Jones!
I came up in that school of, like,  all kind, every kind of music.
There's just two kinds, bad and good.
I just got back from, uh, Hong Kong and Abu Dhabi and Dubai,
so I'm a little turned around here, so bear along with me, okay?
Tonight...
is a powerful foray...
into-- Jesus!
I'm falling down here.
Glenn!
Jesus Christ.
Glenn!
[man] How's your pain right now?
-I don't have any. -[man] No pain? Good.
Okay, very good. Okay.
[Rashida] Dad, did they tell you that there's any way to prevent blood clots?
-Did they tell you? -No.
[Kidada] Exercise.
-[Rashida] Exercise, compression socks. -Yeah, not sedentary. -[Kidada] Yeah. -Sedentary.
-[Kidada] Yeah. -What socks?
-[Rashida] Compression socks. -Yes, I know... about that.
[Rashida] Did they say it was from, yeah, traveling, Dad?
Traveling is worse if you don't exercise.
[Rashida] He's traveling too much.
[Tapson] Can I listen to your lungs real quick? Just take a second.
You had kind of a close call, you know?
If you've got a big clot like that that sneaks up through,
If you've got a big clot like that that sneaks up through, it's a clot this long, I mean, that can be sudden death.
it's a clot this long, I mean, that can be sudden death. Oh, man.
You got any travel coming up?
I was supposed to go to Washington, I was supposed to go to Europe.
You gotta be careful, I think,
especially the first few weeks after something like this, you know.
I want to start exercising too.
I honestly, I thought, 90 percent chance you come out in a wheelchair.
-Really? No way. -I... That got me very excited.
-I'm glad to hear that. -I'm a responder and a survivor.
[Quincy] After my marriage to Ulla broke up,
I was determined not to hook up seriously with anyone.
I met Peggy Lipton in 1972.
She was a beautiful star of a hot TV series, The Mod Squad,
the first young hip drama on TV.
She was independent, smart,
beautiful, and understanding.
When we met, the chemistry was so strong.
I just was so drawn to him.
He came into my life and that was it.
It was like I knew.
After we met, it was so instantaneous that he just moved in.
It was, like, two weeks later, he was in.
[Quincy] Falling in love with Peggy was like a breath of fresh air.
[Quincy] We said, "We'll do this as long as we feel good."
We never even talked of marriage.
We didn't feel that a piece of paper was necessary to keep us together. ♪ Feel that body heat ♪
All of her desires, her focus, she gave to her family and to me,
All of her desires, her focus, she gave to her family and to me, so that I could get on with my career.
He was working himself like crazy.
He was so determined to take himself out of only a jazz musician,
to take himself out of only a movie composer,
and to go the next step with that.
[Quincy] Duke Ellington said, "I want you to be one of the people
that help to de-categorize American music."
He passed the baton down.
In order for music to grow, the critics must stop categorizing
In order for music to grow, the critics must stop categorizing and let the musicians get involved
in all different facets of music.
We will die if we get stuck in one area of music.
[announcer] Tonight, the Academy Awards orchestra
will be conducted by three-time Oscar nominee Quincy Jones!
[Peggy] One day he just, um... collapsed.
And I called 9-1-1 right away.
When we took him to the hospital, he-- he wasn't conscious.
And I was just, like, how could one moment be so perfect and the next moment your whole life is falling apart.
and the next moment your whole life is falling apart.
[Quincy] It was like a cannon had blasted through my head.
What happens is the main vessel to your brain... pops.
They operated for seven and a half hours.
At the end of the operation, my neurosurgeons came in and said,
"The good news is you lived.
The bad news is we found another one on the other side
that could be ready to explode at any minute.
In two months, we have to go back in again."
The first thing that you think about are all the things that were, like,
things I'm going to get around to.
Like my daughter hadn't called me "Daddy".
And all of the things that I hadn't done, all these crazy, wild things in your imagination
all these crazy, wild things in your imagination that you hadn't even started on.
It's nature's way of getting your attention.
You know, to make you live your life, you know, really live it and... and...
dig down for the values that really mean something.
[Peggy] With our baby Kidada six months old,
and the other operation looming a few weeks away,
we decided to marry.
[Quincy] You realize, uh... the true essence of time.
And you tell your friends you love them... now!
Not tomorrow or next week.
Let them feel your love.
[Quincy] I asked the doctor afterwards, "What is that--
What was going on at that time?" And he said, "You were dying, you know."
I had to try to rehabilitate, you know, go through therapy to be able to write
because it's frightening to see, you know, those big jagged edges,
when you're trying to write again.
And dropouts in... memory.
So that's scary, that's frightening. I mean, people real close to you, it just disappears.
I mean, people real close to you, it just disappears.
[woman] What's important to you now?
[Quincy] Uh, contributing something...
that you don't really get anything in return for.
[Peggy] We were grateful.
We were grateful for a lot of things.
And, uh, people were just amazed at his recovery.
And then we had another baby.
Happy anniversary to us. Happy anniversary to us.
Isn't that wild?
[Quincy] When you come back,
all of the dreams you have, you say, "You'd better go for it, now," you know?
You can't put that off, you know. It's not--
I'd rather say, uh, "I'm sorry I did," rather than "I wish I had," you know?
Gigi!
-Hi. -How's my baby?
-Are you hungry? -A little bit.
So much fun, man.
What's this, love?
It's just something I found going through one of the boxes.
Oh, my God.
Wow.
I haven't seen this in 50 years.
I got accurate records of everything.
How much I was getting... Jesus Christ, look at all those!
Nineteen arrangements, twenty dollars apiece. Lord have mercy.
-Twenty dollars apiece. -What year was that?
Twelve dollars! God damn! 1952.
Twelve dollars an arrangement.
Jesus Christ.
But I was happy  'cause I wasn't starving to death.
What else you got?
Wow.
Boy, time is a bitch, man. Look at that.
-[Gloria] Is that you? -[Quincy] That's my yearbook picture.
Look at that belly, man.
That's a big belly, man.
It takes you back, honey.
Look at Daddy.
He was always happy.
Oh, he was a beautiful man.
Oh, my God.
-My mother. -Yeah.
Oh, Sarah.
Wow.
Heavy.
What the hell is this?
"This is filled with lies."
Who said that?
[Gloria] I have no idea, what is that?
"Everybody spoke well of you until you scandalized your mother."
This looks like your mother's writing.
-I know. -Typewriter.
"That is what happens when you listen to evil communications." That's her.
My mother, she was mad when she read this article.
I never saw this stuff before.
"The cake is what made you lose all of your teeth.
I insisted on good food. Even so, that's when I tossed the cake in a garbage can."
Oh, God.
That's sad.
[Peggy] Quincy's mother, Sarah, was there as a shadow.
As a shadow of...
who he could become.
He worried that maybe he had that mental illness like her.
She would come back into our lives through...
you know, wanting to see the grandchildren.
Quincy just would go into a full cold sweat around her.
She pushed his buttons in a way that we could never understand.
[Quincy] Of the word mother, you know, it doesn't mean too much to me.
I don't know what it is, you know.
I guess trauma gets frozen at the peak.
It was really seriously damaging.
I'm sure that affected my relationship with a lot of women later, you know.
They're feelings that I'm... to this day, I'm still wrestling with.
[Quincy] Isn't it astounding, man,
when you look at the reality of us having the same twelve notes
when you look at the reality of us having the same twelve notes for 710 years.
-Everybody. -Amazing, right?
Brahms, Beethoven, Basie, Bo Diddley, Bird.
The same fucking 12 notes.
It's heavy, man. Isn't it?
-That's really heavy, right? -It is heavy, man!
-That's really heavy, right? -It is heavy, man! Seven hundred and ten years!
-That-- that is quite amazing. -Shit!
-Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. -And then something to do like this one.
Where's that B, where's that B?
Do it again, like this.
-Uh-huh. -Like that?
We're still dealing with the climactic part of the octaves.
-Those octaves, you can't follow 'em. -[Richard] Mm-hmm.
I'm just saying, just let them have a little bit at a time, you know?
Of course, yeah.
-What do you think? -I think it's ready for the painting.
-Yeah? -Ready for some paint.
Richard, the other stuff is very legato and everything else,
so let's do the contrast and keep it so it's a little bit more percussive.
Okay.
[Quincy] Yeah!
Yeah.
-Yes! -[Alfredo] Whoo!
I think that he's great.
He's great, man.
-It was a good day, man. -[Alfredo] Yeah.
Good day.
-[man] No bass? -[Quincy] We'll do the bass separate.
-Okay. -Do the guitar first
so we can make a decision about it.
[man] "Light Up The Night", take two!
[Quincy] My feeling is always leave at least 20 or 30 percent of room
for the Lord to walk through the room.
Because, you know, then you're leaving room for the magic
and, uh, records are about
capturing magic, real magical moments, you know,
at that time, and capturing them on tape, you know.
I think that's what communicates, is the magic of the moment.
And... love is the other word, too. When the love is in the studio,
because that contributes more to magic in the studio than anything else.
I guess this is the most exciting period of my life.
[man] You don't in any way find it exhausting creatively?
[Quincy] It's the best thing for me because it gives me a chance
to get everything out and, uh, get involved with the whole eclectic world which I love,
and, uh, get involved with the whole eclectic world which I love, which is black music, period. And also film scoring  just taps the right parts of me
And also film scoring  just taps the right parts of me
and makes me feel at ease.
♪ Here is the lively invitation ♪
[Peggy] I think with The Wiz, it was the next challenge for Quincy.
And, of course, he put 110 percent in.
[Peggy] Our whole family moved to New York to be with him,
and I took his two other children with me,
and it was very difficult 'cause he was away every night.
[man] Okay, we're back with Michael Jackson, and you just coming off The Wiz.
It was terrific. It's something I always wanted to do, and, uh, it was a lot of fun working with all the greats--
and, uh, it was a lot of fun working with all the greats-- Sidney Lumet, Quincy Jones...
[Quincy] When we were doing The Wiz, he asked me about, could I find him a producer?
he asked me about, could I find him a producer?
At the time, we were heavily into the film and so I didn't pay much attention.
Hey fellas, is today the day you're gonna help me get down from here?
[Quincy] What I saw is discipline.
He showed up at five o'clock in the morning for a four-hour makeup job, and then he stood around.
for a four-hour makeup job, and then he stood around.
He knew everybody's songs, all of their lines, lyrics, dance steps, everything! He just absorbed everything.
lyrics, dance steps, everything! He just absorbed everything.
And I started to see a maturity in him.
And at that moment, I said, "You've got a producer, man.
I'd like to take a shot at it."
I felt he had the potential to go way beyond the wonderful trademark bubblegum he'd done on Motown with the Jackson 5.
the wonderful trademark bubblegum he'd done on Motown with the Jackson 5.
When he was ready to record, I got my "Killer Q" posse together.
Rod "Worms" Temperton,
one of the greatest songwriters who ever lived.
Bruce "Svensk" Swedien,
Greg "Mouse" Phillinganes,
Louis "Thunder Thumbs" Johnson,
John "J.R." Robinson,
Paulhino Da Costa,
Jerry Hay,
and many, many others.
We attacked that record.
We tried all kinds of things I'd learned over the years
to help him with his artistic growth.
Things like dropping keys just a minor third
to give him more flexibility and a more mature range.
He was so shy, sometimes he'd sit down and sing behind the couch
with his back to me.
Quincy saw that spark in Michael that would make him a star.
He definitely saw
that there was something in Michael that was needed in the world.
[Quincy] You have to get something that, when we look at the end of a day,
and I have goosebumps, and Michael has goosebumps,
then I think we've got something special,
'cause we're all very hard to please and not satisfied too easily.
[Quincy] The resulting record, Off the Wall,
was the biggest-selling black record in history at that time.
[woman] Quincy Jones is hard to put in a musical category.
His most recent production of Michael Jackson's hit album Off The Wall
was a smash success.
It sold over eight million copies and got award upon award.
Off The Wall, Michael Jackson.
Michael Jackson.
Michael Jackson.
Thank you, Quincy Jones.
Thank you, my mother and father and all the beautiful fans
who bought, you know, the record, and, uh...
God, I really appreciate it. I love it. Thank you very much.
[Peggy] Well, Quincy really had to nurture Michael, and part of their relationship was that of a mentor and his protégé.
and part of their relationship was that of a mentor and his protégé.
But I think Quincy was also a father figure to him.
♪ P.Y.T. ♪
♪ T.L.C. ♪
In the pocket!
♪ T.L.C. ♪
[Quincy] The making of Thriller in a little more than two months was like riding a rocket.
Everything about it was done at hyperspeed.
Rod Temperton, who also co-wrote several of the album's songs, and I
listened to nearly 600 songs before picking out a dozen we liked.
We all worked ourselves into a near frenzy.
I called Michael "Smelly" because when he liked a piece of music or a certain beat,
instead of calling it funky, he'd call it "smelly jelly".
[man] Cut! Once more, right away.
-[man] Here we go! -[man] Right away.
And re-cue. Let's go, right away.
[man] Okay, here we go, ready, and...
We're working on a... a movie short, which is like ten minutes,
for the Thriller album, the song "Thriller",
and it's really exciting, what happens.
Michael, I think this is gonna be the Citizen Kane of the videos.
I really do.
It's going to be the most revolutionary thing in the history of videos, you know.
[Quincy] The single "Thriller" was the first 14-minute music video ever made
and was treated like the premiere of a feature film around the world.
Michael was splashed all over the globe visually as well as musically.
Michael, the MTV videos, and the music, all rode each other to glory.
"Dear Quincy, we are all part of history in the making."
[Peggy] I don't think anyone would have known how far it was gonna go.
[man] Several people in the crowd of 5,000 fainted.
Police struggled to maintain order.
One fan said, "I thought I was going to get killed, but it was worth it."
And producer of the year is... Quincy Jones and Michael Jackson!
And producer of the year is... Quincy Jones and Michael Jackson! Yes!
We'd like to thank the people that make this work.
My wife...
who chose to take care of me rather than pursue her own career...
and our family, and I love her.
-And Michael Jackson... -[cheering]
I think one of the greatest entertainers of the 20th century.
I mean that from all my heart.
[Quincy] Beautiful, beautiful.
Great-- great bass sound on the synths, man.
Love it.
One of my favorite sounds.
[woman] One, two, three.
If I don't see you before, -have a great holidays. -You too.
-have a great holidays. -You too. -I'll send you some shots, love you. -I love you back.
-I'll send you some shots, love you. -I love you back.
Hmm. Quite a history!
-[Laju] Hi! -[Quincy] How are you, sweetheart?
-Oh, good to see you, you look great. -[Quincy] You too, honey.
You've been doing other exercise, too?
No, I haven't done exercise in six months.
Oh, wow.
So we gotta find a way to ease back, you know.
-Okay, yeah. -Take me slowly there.
Definitely.
It's been a long time.
There you go.
-Good, that's good. -[grunts]
-Perfect. -Can't even budge.
-Good. Turn... Be completely relaxed. -This is hard, man, Jesus Christ.
Take a break.
-The body's not used to it, right? -Yeah.
Yep.
It's the way to get back like that again.
I'm gonna give you a list right now of people that I'd like to just get,
I'm gonna give you a list right now of people that I'd like to just get, and as fast as you get them on the phone, I have to speak with each one.
and as fast as you get them on the phone, I have to speak with each one. No problem.
-Sidney Poitier. -Mm-hmm.
Stevie Wonder. Michael.
-M.J. -Streisand. Spielberg's office.
-And I'd like to talk to Alex Haley. -Mm-hmm.
And Brando.
[woman] The new star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.
This one honors composer, arranger, and jazz musician Quincy Jones.
-How did all these people get here? -[laughter]
[woman] Jones was there today with his wife, actress Peggy Lipton,
who was, of course, in The Mod Squad.
Jones headed the list with eight nominations
including best album of the year for The Dude.
You get inspired by so many things and you never stop, you never stop.
You think you can get it all in and that's the dangerous part.
[Peggy] There was so much demand on him, in every way.
Host this, be that, you know, show up here, do that.
I began to find those things really wearing on us.
It didn't feel like the old days anymore.
It felt like things had changed so much.
[woman] A group of legendary performers recorded "We Are the World".
That's good, let's put it on the tape!
[woman] They've generated millions of dollars to help fight famine in Africa.
"The world's number one music man." One would think that's enough.
What, uh, made you decide to go and produce a film?
Well, it's been a little secret dream for years, right?
And it also encompassed a beautiful era of black music that was woven and integrated right into the story.
that was woven and integrated right into the story.
At first I resisted, you know, for all the obvious reasons.
And Quincy was saying, "You know, this is not about race. This is about humanity."
And he said, "You know, you didn't have to go to Mars to make E.T."
And that made a lot of sense to me.
You all know the story, right? Quincy Jones discovered me.
And he was in Chicago, turned-- Tell 'em the story, Quincy.
[Quincy] We were trying to cast The Color Purple.
I came in on a red-eye and couldn't sleep and walked around in the hotel
and turned on the television set, and here comes Miss Winfrey,
real, honest, and true, and it's all over. My baby.
-And I was discovered! -My baby.
[Quincy] After principal photography had been completed, I almost forgot
I still had to create a score in less than two months.
-[Oprah] Were you overwhelmed? -Oh, yes.
And I just panicked, you know?
We already got a drum machine on, man. We got a drum machine.
We don't need to worry about that, do we?
[Quincy] I know it's a sickness, in a way.
You can call it "workaholic" or whatever it is, but it's, uh...
it's the only way I know.
[Peggy] He'd become...
a person that people just wanted a part of, and he began to give away, I thought...
and he began to give away, I thought...
pieces of himself.
And by the time The Color Purple was over, there was nothing left.
He wasn't even of this world.
How are you feeling now? I mean, are you, like, zombied out?
How are you feeling now? I mean, are you, like, zombied out? I'm fried, yes, really. It's-- I've been running around,
I'm fried, yes, really. It's-- I've been running around, and--and  I'm just physically and mentally exhausted, you know?
and--and  I'm just physically and mentally exhausted, you know?
-From writing all that music? -Just everything.
It's just the most music I've ever seen in my life, and it's...
It's just the most music I've ever seen in my life, and it's... The brain is just tired, you know.
It's two years, you know. Just like... I've been running.
[Peggy] Our relationship was starting to, you know, look sort of, uh, bleak.
And a lot of it came from my insecurity,
not having him around as much as I wanted to.
That movie took him away.
He wanted to fix things, but there was nothing to fix.
I wasn't that whole... person that I needed to be.
[sighing] So...
we broke up.
It was over like that.
[Quincy] Losing my marriage to Peggy after 14 years
was like having my arteries ripped out.
I lost the woman I thought I'd live with for the rest of my life.
I'd known then that I was losing my mind...
that I was having a nervous breakdown.
I went back...
inside, deep into myself, to reassess my essence as a human being.
to reassess my essence as a human being.
'Cause I don't want to recreate any of the old patterns again.
I realized that, from the time I was a little boy, to that moment,
I was always running...
always trying to fill up that black hole in my soul.
I ran because there was nothing behind me to hold me up.
I ran because I thought that that was all there was to do.
I thought that to stay in one place meant to die.
All I could think about was my kids...
how my success had been at their expense in so many ways.
Sometimes it's hard, at first, to talk to him. -[Rashida] Uh-huh. -But then, once...
once I say what I want to say, he's fine.
Like, I couldn't really talk to him for a while 'cause I never see him.
[Martina] Yeah.
[Quincy] It took two or three years to get everything really in focus,
to reassess how I want to spend the rest of my life.
[man] Ladies and gentlemen, the hardest-working man in showbusiness.
[woman] Okay... Okay, did you get it?
I thought about my kids because, while I was doing all this stuff, you know...
I thought about my kids because, while I was doing all this stuff, you know... uh, it was taking the time from them.
And that's what I kept thinking about, you know.
And that's my pride and joy, my children, I'm telling you.
And I'm making up for it now.
This is my one and only number one son.
He loves lots of hip hop
and introduced me to a lot of things that I didn't understand about it.
And again, yep.
That's good. And look over there. That's great.
This shit kinda big, huh?
It's Quincy Jones, boy.
Don't talk to me no more.
Want to make a bad face?
My generation was introduced to Quincy when Thriller...
You know, that's where...
kids my age can identify him with.
-Where you from, man? -I'm from Compton.
South Side of Chicago, that was my home.
-Yeah, it's tough. My family's from there. -Huh?
-My whole family's from there. -That's amazing.
But it's the same. You know, the hood is the same everywhere in the world.
-Yeah. -Then I found a piano, man,
-and that changed my life. -Yeah.
I would have been dead or in prison a long time ago.
-Right. -Chicago, Jesus...
In the '30s?
-Them motherfuckers don't play. -Yeah.
It's funny, because I was inspired by Back on the Block without even knowing.
Combining hip hop and jazz, and you was the first to do it.
-Do you know where rap came from? -Uhn-uhn.
Where? Where do you think it came from, the Bronx?
-My generation, we're gonna say the Bronx. -Shit.
-The Bronx. -It came from Africa.
The praise-shouters in Africa.
-That's a trip, man. -It is.
That's where all the rhythms came from. Huh?
-To know where it really originates. -Yeah.
-Where the rhythms came from. -Vibrations, yeah.
When I was in the hospital, I was looking back on 70 years, man.
-It's been a motherfucker, man. -Yeah.
Unbelievable. Each decade is different, you know?
-Each decade. -Different music.
-Right. -It's amazing.
I never thought about that stuff before, you know.
-'Cause you get back what you give, man. -Yeah.
-You can count on that. -Wow.
-Man. -But you're on the right track, man.
-It's definitely a pleasure. An honor. -I'm very proud of you, man.
-Thank you. -And I'm always there for you.
-You got my card, right? -Yup. Yup.
-Always there. -Yup. -I mean that. -Yup.
-I'm gonna take that to heart. -Mm-hmm.
I'm gonna take it to heart.
-[man] So, this is Prairie, huh? -This is it.
Lord, that's it! Lord have mercy! Just hold, just a second. God damn.
Wow.
God. Boy, this is heavy... Whoo!
That is unbelievable.
God damn!
That's frightening, man.
I can't put it all together.
Man, oh, man.
Look at this, I remember this.
Ooh! I remember this so well.
Yeah, we were back here.
Oh, my God, man.
You know what's amazing is how big everything used to feel. It's so tiny.
Oh boy, it's my-- My parents stayed here.
That's where they threw my mother down on the bed and, uh...
and put her in a straitjacket.
And they took her away.
Jesus Christ.
I'm carrying around the past.
But you can sit and wallow in that shit, you know...
and blame, and all the other stuff, but it's not about that.
At one point, I stopped thinking about myself and I started to think about her
and... think about the things she had gone through.
And how much she loved us.
And I got it. It was real late, but I got it, you know.
You got to let go all of the past, you know, bring the good parts forward,
forget about the negative stuff, and go on.
Because whenever you get hung up and locked into the past,
you're robbing yourself of the present... and definitely the future, you know.
-How old are you? -Eight.
I was here when I was your age.
You got Michael Jackson in business.
[Quincy] I was working on the show, man.
It's just right around the corner.
-[Rashida] You think you'll be ready, Dad? -We'll get it.
[Quincy] Boy, oh boy, what history.
Oh, my God.
Boy, the shit they've gone through in this country.
This has got to be the best for young people to see, good God.
Look at Marvin over there.
My baby.
Look at this. All the old homies there.
Yeah, these are the kings.
Unbelievable.
Here's your girl, Dinah Washington.
[Quincy] Look at Dinah, the Queen.
I started with her when I was 22.
It's heavy, man. This is like a dream.
My brother, man.
Smelly.
Heavy.
Lord have mercy, this is memories.
Memory lane, man.
This is so good for young people, boy, I can't tell you.
Kids can see what the history is about.
-Exactly, exactly. -It's beautiful, man. Thank you, brother.
Thank you. Been waiting all my life to see this, man.
Jesus Christ.
Damn.
All of them gone.
That's frightening.
Hmm. Beautiful people.
-Am I in tune? -[Quincy] That's what I was gonna do.
-[one note] -Feels a little high.
-Um, sharp or flat? -It's a little high.
-[man] A little sharp. -[Davis] No shit.
[Quincy] If I had one more shot to make an album,
it would be an album like this.
Whoa, baby! -I'm supposed to keep right through? -That's it.
-I'm supposed to keep right through? -That's it.
You did just what you supposed to do.
- You know, it should be your personality. -I'll try.
-Okay? And that's easy for you to be you. -[laughing]
[Quincy] Working with these artists that people have loved over the years
like Ella Fitzgerald, and Sarah Vaughan, and Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie,
and Ray Charles...
Now, Q, what do you want-- Okay, guys, where should I go?
Did you say, "I'll take you shopping"?
Okay, yeah, I mean...
[Quincy] Along with the rappers, the new people in the family,
like Kool Moe Dee and Ice-T,
and Melle Mel and Big Daddy Kane, it's just been unbelievable.
You've got a real nice message here, so try to just make sure all your words are clear and coming through,
so try to just make sure all your words are clear and coming through, no matter what feeling you put into it.
♪ [rapping] I'm introducin' A bop revolution In jazz that has pizazz ♪
♪ He is one player usin' it As who is, his first name's Dizzy ♪
♪ Last name Gillespie Now watch him get busy ♪
[Quincy] And there was a kinship.
There was a strong kinship between hip hop and bebop, I could feel it.
And that's why I tried the fusion of the two and it was so natural.
♪ Back on the block so we can rock ♪ ♪ With the soul, rhythm, blues Bebop, and hip hop ♪
♪ Back on the block so we can rock ♪ ♪ With the soul, rhythm, blues Bebop, and hip hop ♪
♪ Back on the block, back on the block ♪
♪ Ice-T, let me check my credentials A young player bred in South Central... ♪
Back on the Block, Quincy Jones, producer Quincy Jones.
I can't believe this.
I really can't believe this. I've been in this Academy since 1958.
And this is the first time I even dare think about having a...
Grammy... under my own name, and I'm so proud.
I'd like to firstly thank my mother.
To my beautiful children, my family.
I'd like to ask everyone to pray for peace on Earth, and when we get peace on Earth, let's take care of the Earth.
and when we get peace on Earth, let's take care of the Earth. Thank you very much. I'm very happy.
Thank you very much. I'm very happy.
[man] Why did you say that the next decade
is going to be the most difficult ten years of your life?
It's when I'll have the energy to really stand behind all of the things
that I believe about, creatively...
um, socially, politically,
personally, ethically, morally, and everything.
We came here to announce the formation of Qwest Broadcasting Company.
Qwest will be one of the largest minority-controlled broadcasting groups
in the industry today.
Our first show went on NBC on Monday nights, The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air.
♪ Now this is a story all about how My life got flipped, turned upside down ♪
[Will Smith] Quincy called me. He said, "What are you doing?"
I said. "Well, you know, we're touring." He said, "Okay.
Well, I want to pitch your future to you."
-Hey, Q! -Hey!
[Quincy] I saw him from the first time he got on camera,
and I saw this man grow and grow.
[female reporter] Vibe is the latest thrill for Quincy Jones,
who says his new magazine will be for the '90s hip hoppers
what Rolling Stone was to '60s rockers.
[Quincy] I realized there's a whole new music culture
that sits on the scene today that I think is growing by the minute
that sits on the scene today that I think is growing by the minute and there's no voice for it.
[woman] What is it about rap that scares people?
[Quincy] It's young black urban males with a lot of energy
and expressing the conditions of their life in a very poetic way.
It's a very dramatic way, a very theatrical way,
and it is very powerful stuff.
[male reporter] The two have been at the center of a battle between east and west coast rappers.
[Quincy] I don't think they are aware that they have such a tremendous heritage.
Sometimes they feel like they're alone out there. But they're not alone.
[male reporter] Fans on both coasts want the real-life violence to stop.
I think communications can help a lot,
I think communications can help a lot, because we're getting ready to lose two generations of young people.
because we're getting ready to lose two generations of young people.
[Quincy] We had a symposium, uh, in New York with Suge Knight,
and Dr. Dre, and Puffy, and all those people, Public Enemy, and Colin Powell,
you know, to talk about how do we even this out
you know, to talk about how do we even this out so that they don't get blown away so young.
Let's bring Quincy Jones up so he can really set it off.
The reason I fell in love with hip hop? Because it reminded me so much of bebop,
and I feel a kinship there because we went through a lot of the same stuff.
The philosophy behind bebop
is that you had to be hip, you wanted to be hip. And being hip is being aware.
The thing that really provoked me to say it's time to pay attention now is Tupac.
We finally hooked up, even though it was, uh...
tension conditions in the beginning, we finally talked to each other
and he said nobody had talked to him like that before.
And I said I can't take it anymore...
because we no longer can afford to be non-political,
because we no longer can afford to be non-political, and I'm talking to the hip hop nation now.
We got to seriously talk about what you are you going to... deal with.
They're not playing. There's real bullets out there, believe me.
I'm not gonna roll on here. I got so many things to say...
[voice cracking] and it's a very emotional... thing.
I want to see you guys live at least to my age.
I really do.
[female reporter] Rapper Biggie Smalls was shot to death in Los Angeles. His death comes almost exactly six months to the day
His death comes almost exactly six months to the day that another rapper, Tupac Shakur, was fatally shot in Las Vegas.
that another rapper, Tupac Shakur, was fatally shot in Las Vegas.
[Dr. Dre] His death is going to open some eyes most definitely.
To me, I get the feeling that there's already becoming a change in hip hop.
Everybody's moving more to the positive vibe.
You know what I mean?
I've seen the power of music as a tool...
to reach the hearts and minds of millions of people.
And since my voice carries louder and farther than those of a few others,
I have a special responsibility to sing a melody...
about poverty eradication,
to end the suffering caused by extreme poverty.
And I have been hungry. I know what it feels like.
And I don't care how much money I make or suits I wear,
I never forget that feeling of what it feels like when you miss the meals
and you can't eat for three days.
When Quincy decided that he wanted to be more of a citizen with more impact,
not only in the United States, but around the world,
he goes after that the same way he went after music.
Hi, I'm Quincy Jones,
and this is the first official opening ceremony
leading to the presidential inauguration.
-Hey, Rash! -[Rashida] Busy, Dad? -Who, me? -[Rashida] Yeah.
-Who, me? -[Rashida] Yeah.
[Clinton] He understands that it's only through politics that you can address some of the problems that he cares a lot about.
that you can address some of the problems that he cares a lot about.
[female reporter] Now Jones will gather many of the world's A-list stars in Rome
for the "We Are the Future" concert.
Ciao, Roma!
[female reporter] The event will launch a worldwide humanitarian effort
aimed at helping children in war-ravaged countries.
[male reporter] Pope John Paul II meets with Quincy Jones today as part of an effort to help get rid of Third World debt.
as part of an effort to help get rid of Third World debt.
[Quincy] We're raising the funds now to build 100 homes in South Africa
with the Habitat for Humanity.
My daddy used to do this, man.
[Mandela] I've got a great respect for Quincy Jones.
For a man with such talents
For a man with such talents to regard the struggle in South Africa...
This takes an exceptional human being.
What's interesting about Quincy has been,
What's interesting about Quincy has been, at each stage in this remarkable career, he's been the first.
at each stage in this remarkable career, he's been the first.
He's been somebody who's walked through that door before anybody else has,
and that's given people behind him enormous confidence.
And he's done it with grace.
-You only live 26,000 days. -[Oprah] That's right.
-And you dead a lot longer than that. -That's right, honey.
-And you dead a lot longer than that. -That's right, honey. And so, I'm telling you, I'm gonna wear all of them out.
And so, I'm telling you, I'm gonna wear all of them out. And if I get to 80, that'll be 29,000.
I'm gonna wear 'em all out, you know? They're gonna know... we came through here.
It's from a...
a farm down in South Africa, and they were going broke with the produce,
so the owner of the farm taught all the people that worked on it
so the owner of the farm taught all the people that worked on it how to do sculpting.
Isn't that something?
So I was at this art gallery...
with Mancini, and I saw the dude that said,
"Take me with you, take me home."
You know, he just begged me to take him home.
That's what inspired the album. Isn't that something?
That's the dude.
Attitude, isn't it, man?
Is that attitude? Shit...!
Don't mess with that motherfucker, boy.
And it just talked to me every night.
"Hey, motherfucker, I want to be an album. I want to be a tune."
[Quincy] Merry Christmas.
This is my grandson.
Love you, man. -Merry Christmas. -You too, baby.
I adore you.
Yeah, baby!
Where's my kiss?
Thank you, sweetheart.
-I love your class. -[woman] Can you take a picture with us?
Thanks for tonight, Glo.
It was great.
When you almost leave here, you really treasure a day like today.
Oh, man.
Really treasure it.
Every-- every day, friends are dying.
It's really been crazy.
It's hard because, you know what, you know that that telephone
will never be answered again.
Ray Charles, all those people, it'll never be answered again, and that's the hard part.
You've got their numbers, the Cannonball's and stuff,
Dizzy's and Miles', and Sarah, and Ella, and all that stuff, but they're-- they're gone, you know.
And it's painful.
Painful, man.
Lesley Gore, and Michael.
It's a killer.
But that's life.
Hey, Quincy.
This is me.
You know what?
♪ Nights alone ♪
♪ Since you went away ♪
♪ I think about you ♪
♪ All through the day ♪
♪ My buddy ♪
♪ My buddy ♪
♪ Your buddy ♪
♪ Misses ♪ ♪ You ♪
Aww, Quincy...
I love you, man. I love you.
Today, as so many generations have before, we gather on our National Mall...
to tell an essential part of our American story.
One that has, at times, been overlooked.
[man] Quincy is the reason we're all here.
He suggested that we all get involved in this.
[Quincy] Thank you.
You know what would be a good idea?
So if you're doing a live "America the Beautiful",
you ought to play Ray Charles' "America the Beautiful" in there too.
-The combination would be hot. -Yeah.
As soon as you get the script, just send it him.
Maybe we'll let him use his own words about how happy he is to see the museum.
"African-Americans came from Carolinas, Florida, New Orleans..." Just cut that out and start, "A lot of whites came from Downtown."
Just cut that out and start, "A lot of whites came from Downtown."
-We didn't get Colin Powell yet, huh? -Huh?
-Didn't get Colin Powell? -Don't think they got him yet.
Okay, I'll call Colin, man, I'll call him.
My brother, Colin, this is Quincy, man.
Yeah.
But we need you, man.
And Tom Hanks will introduce you, you know, right after they do the Tuskegee Airmen.
All right, Colin, I love you, man.
Done.
Colin Powell.
We got him.
And Jada.
So, did you hear back from her yet? Oprah?
So, did you hear back from her yet? Oprah? -Just from the assistant. -Okay.
She was passing it along.
[man] Okay, thank you, we'll begin this rehearsal just as we did before.
Killed it, man. What a beautiful feeling.
Don, would you mind putting Chick Webb before Ella Fitzgerald?
-Okay, okay. -Great stuff, baby.
-[man] Got Oprah. -Okay.
I can't wait to see ya.
You're going to have a ball, honey. You're gonna have a ball. I love you.
♪ I sing ♪ ♪ Because... ♪
Yeah, baby!
Hell, yeah.
-You guys are so good, honey! -Thank you!
-Thank you! -So good, honey!
-Thank you so much! -Thank you, honey.
-For just being being on this planet. -No, you!
-God bless you, honey. -You are so inspirational.
I feel your soul and your minds.
-You guys singing those thirds, I love it. -Thank you!
-You do your own arrangements? -Yes.
Go on, girl!
-Love it. Solos and harmony. -That means so much.
No, honey, I mean it. I'm too old to be full of it.
So exciting, man.
They're killin' it. Thanks, Don.
-"Hardcore." -[laughing]
We came all the way from North Carolina for this!
-Really? -Thank you!
God bless you.
Me, too.
Love the band!
Tennessee State, man. They're incredible, man.
Hey, baby. How you doing?
I know, Dad, I can't wait. You look so good, Daddy! You look so sharp.
Hey, girl!
Hey, Mary. God bless you, honey. I'm so glad you're here.
-Thanks for having me. -Thank you.
-We're gonna have a fun show. -Oh, baby, it's a killer, man. Killer!
-How are you, buddy? -Good to see you. -Yeah, you kicked it, man. -Oh, man. It was fun last night, wasn't it?
-Hey, Tom. How you doin', brother? -Good to see you! -You too, man! -How you doin', my man?
-I stopped drinking 19 months ago. -Did you really? Well, your life is totally different, then.
How you sleeping? All good? -Incredible. -Beautiful.
-So happy you're here, man. -I'm here, ready to do the thing. -You called and I came, man. -Love you, man.
Hey, baby! How you doing, man?
So proud of you, man.
-[Oprah] All right. I came to play. -All right.
On my way.
Heads up, five minute warning.
Want to practice once?
"It was the happening place. We called it the Uptown Getdown."
-That's good. -That's better.
[man] Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States,
Barack Obama, and Mrs. Michelle Obama.
[Quincy] Voilà!
Now we're talking.
We're here to celebrate, and laugh, and clap along, and probably even cry a little
to mark the opening of the first museum in the country
dedicated to the African-American experience in America!
A father who always gets the music started, as he will tonight. Quincy Jones!
And his daughter, Rashida Jones!
How are y'all?
So, let me just set the scene for you.
Harlem, in the '20s and '30s,
not just an address, but a state of mind.
Ladies and gentlemen, six surviving members
of the Tuskegee Airmen.
Up there is the first black President.
-Great, honey. -You did great, Dad.
[Quincy] Killer!
[man] Thank you.
God bless you. Y'all are bad, baby.
Yeah.
I have to thank you, man, from the bottom of my heart, man.
-[Quincy] God bless you, man. -God bless you.
-What an experience. -[Quincy] Keep on keepin' on.
-Q! -[Quincy] Thank you.
[Quincy] What a night.
-[Quincy] God bless. -God bless.
[Quincy] Thank you.
God bless, honey.
-How was it? -Oh, I cried, honey.
-Oh, you did? -Yeah.
God bless, baby.
God damn.
That's big stuff, man. It's a big... responsibility in this generation, you know.
It's a big... responsibility in this generation, you know. "Here's what happened."
It's a journey, coming up in this fucking country, man. Chicago...
No joke.
I didn't see anybody white till I was 11 years old.
And the kids, the kids' minds...
most of them...
are not into that shit, 'cause you have to be taught how to hate.
That's not natural, to hate somebody because of their skin.
You don't have nothing to do with that.
So how people can judge somebody by the color of their skin
is fucked up, you know?
But I... I have a feeling that God will prevail, and... the light will prevail.
You have to think like that.
'Cause we've come a long way, but we've got a long way to go.
[Chaka Khan] ♪ There's a dream ♪ ♪ In your eyes ♪ ♪ Reflecting what's in front of you ♪
♪ It's blinding but it's in you ♪ ♪ There's a world On the tip of your tongue ♪
♪ A taste lingering on your lips ♪ ♪ A feeling on your fingertips ♪ ♪ Ooh, can't nobody tell you What you cannot do ♪
♪ Ooh, can't nobody tell you What you cannot do ♪ ♪ Write a word and watch emotions Flow right through you ♪
♪ Make a bid, why, you're like a rocket Watch it soar across the moon ♪
♪ And keep reachin' ♪
♪ Keep reachin' ♪
Will you excuse me one second?
--floating oil, submerged oil...
...contaminated soils...
...shifting submerged oil...
...and recovery of additional environments.
Just the physical damage alone.
A pregnancy is brutal on your body.
There's also a risk from the hormonal changes:
Mood disorders, depression.
Are you sure you still wanna be a surrogate?
Yes. I am.
If more than two embryos take, the couple may choose to abort some.
Well, that's their choice.
Now, he's gonna keep pushing her here. It's deliberate.
The girls always think they've made their decision to be a surrogate...
...but a lot of them change their mind after about an hour with Carl.
Hey, John.
-Hey. -Hey.
It's fine, I'm here.
I'm here.
-So we found someone? -Yeah...
...possibly. Anna Walsh.
She's 21. She lives here in the city, she's a waitress.
And she is brand-new. Just walked in today.
-What would your choice be? -If the children were mine?
Oh, come on, Anna.
Aren't they? In a way?
Life can take an unexpected turn.
You could lose the baby.
If life worked out the way it was supposed to, I wouldn't be here.
Anna, why are you really doing this?
Because I have the opportunity to help someone who can't have a child.
Look at her eyes.
She means it.
I don't like your interview guy. He is a bully.
But I do like her.
I like her.
Okay.
If we submit....
Martin.
-Todd. -Is Grafton gonna settle?
Oh, they're gonna wish they did.
I want you to bring Todd up to speed.
If we go to court on this, it'll be the firm sticking its neck out.
Now, this is still your baby, but I want a second pair of eyes.
Right. Of course.
No problem.
Hey, babe.
Cooper was just in here.
He's putting Todd frigging Decker on my case.
-I'm with her. -You're with who?
Anna.
It took forever to fill out the paperwork, and I was starved...
...so I dropped into that little diner where she works and she was here...
...waiting for her fiancé to pick her up.
She's great.
I know, I know, I know.
There are a million things that can go wrong...
...and we still have to do the health checks and just everything.
Exactly. It's....
I just don't want us to spend another two years looking...
...and maybe missing, and the whole time, she was the one.
She's so shy.
But there's something else there, like...
...I know she can take care of herself.
I invited her and her fiancé Michael over for dinner tomorrow night.
-Oh, babe. -Is it okay?
Well, I'll tell you, when you move, you move.
I'm sorry, but I just wanna do it right.
I really want them to like us.
I'm sorry if I overdid this. We could've just gone out.
No, are you kidding?
This-- This is real nice.
It's what I do, actually. I'm a chef.
I know it's just a meal...
...but I meant it to show you both how committed we are.
The baby is your business.
-One hundred percent. -But you will be carrying it.
In the service, I know a lot of guys who've done this before.
When you're deployed, it just makes sense.
When I'm gone, you two, you know, you come see her whenever you want.
I understand you'll be using the money to buy a business.
Oh, from my uncle. Residential and commercial roofing.
He had quite the run here after Katrina.
Owning the company means you get a piece of everybody's take-home.
Plus markup, overhead.
Mike's always been real smart about money.
With my deployment bonus...
...we'll be able to put together almost $40,000.
And that's enough to buy the whole thing.
Anna, I'm sure there are probably some questions that you have for us?
Can I smoke somewhere?
Nice home you got here.
These renovations must have cost you a pretty penny.
Well, the house was part of Laura's inheritance from her grandmother.
The renovations, they came later.
Must be nice to lay out that kind of cash.
Working by windows, you see a lot of things that nobody else would see.
Weird shit, you know?
Housewives, whatever.
Act like they're alone...
...but they know we're there.
Right.
Benefit of the job, right?
That, there, isn't the right material.
That gutter's leaking at the splice.
Gonna mess up that window.
Yeah?
Look, if we do this...
...we just wanna make sure that you and Anna are comfortable with it.
We are. Of course.
See, it's just that we're down to our last viable embryo, right?
And we wanna make sure that you know how serious our intentions are.
I get it.
Right?
One hundred percent.
We tried for a long time to get pregnant.
I had three miscarriages.
It really put the two of us through hell.
You actually start to hate...
...your own body.
I've never had anything...
...that anybody wanted before.
Except for the obvious.
I've never been able to give anybody anything.
Okay, just spill it, Taylor, you didn't like them.
Okay, him. I mean, we go outside, right?
And he's talking to me about...
...looking at housewives undressing through windows.
Maybe that's his way of bonding.
I don't know, babe. I mean, we can keep looking.
I think doing something like this is really important to her.
Yeah, I know, it's kind of cute. I mean, you see...
...the way she left a price tag on the dress?
She's taking it back tomorrow.
She wanted to wear something nice to impress us.
I did that on our first date.
Oh, yeah, I remember that dress.
Matter of fact, I remember undoing it, like this.
Did I let you?
On the first date?
I was bad.
You were so bad that you were, oh, so good.
John.
I want to.
Having them here...
...it just brings it all back.
-I understand. -I'm sorry.
It's okay. It's okay, babe.
It's all right.
We're gonna do this, aren't we?
She's the one.
Ready?
All right, hold still.
It's gonna feel like a little stick.
All right. Don't move.
I'm placing the embryo. Don't move.
You're doing good.
And there.
All right. Here we go.
-I'll take that. -Thank you.
All right, we're done. You did great.
Thank you.
Good job.
People always talk about how they know the moment...
...when their child was conceived.
A wedding night or a special date.
But I will know for sure...
...it was this moment.
The baby could be starting its life right now.
It's strange.
It just keeps hitting me how strange it is.
I mean, it's against the law to pay someone to have sex...
...but you can pay a woman to get pregnant with your child?
-Imagine how it is for the boyfriend. -She said she loves him.
She doesn't hesitate, doesn't question it...
...she just loves him.
She asked if it was the same with us.
But it wasn't, was it?
We worked hard.
And we hung in there.
But it was worth it.
Yeah, it was.
When I was working on this room...
...sometimes I would just...
...close my eyes and imagine you in here, playing with our baby.
It's gonna work this time.
Hey.
We're gonna have a family.
We need to do more research on that section of pollution, 11.62.
Once we have that going on....
-You guys go ahead. I gotta take this. -All right, John.
-Hey, babe. Just got out of court. -John.
John, you're gonna be a father.
What?
Anna's here and....
She took a home test. She took three of them...
...and all three of them were positive.
Oh, my God. I'm gonna be a father.
Anna's sitting here watching me bawl my eyes out.
-Babe. -Yeah.
-Hey, Mama. -Hey, Daddy.
-I want her to go to Yale. -No, no. He is gonna go to LSU.
-Law review. -First female president.
Okay.
Anna's in the shower. She's gonna come say hi when she's done.
-Okay. You guys going to yoga together? -Yep.
I didn't know how I'd feel about somebody else's body going through everything...
...but I really like this girl.
I really like you.
-I really like you. -I really love you.
I didn't know he was here.
-He came home early. -No, Anna, this is-- Oh, it's--
This is great news.
It's great news.
This is good work, John.
If this is right, they got nowhere to run.
Well, unless they draw Judge Steve Paulson.
He doesn't believe in corporate negligence.
Invite him to your charity event next month.
The man loves cocktail shrimp and the Saints.
Done.
Will you guys just excuse me for a minute?
She's here for you?
She's a relative.
I called Laura.
She told me to come. I'm sorry.
-Is everything okay? -Yeah.
I had a doctor's appointment. Mike didn't pick me up.
Okay, let's go.
-Come on, honey. -I grew up in a neighborhood like this.
My father, he worked so hard, he didn't have that many days off...
...but when he did...
...he used to pick me up from school.
God, I can't wait to do that.
You're welcome, John.
-So you okay? -Yeah. Thanks for the ride.
Quiet. Quiet!
Guess you forgot to pick her up.
Everything good?
Yeah, I'm fine.
I'm great.
How's this one working out?
Anything you need me to talk to her about?
Everything's fine.
Go in the house right now.
Now.
Let's go.
It's been a long day, cat.
Move.
Mess with me?
That's what I'm talking about.
What's troubling that pretty little head of yours?
Anna said she'd call me, and she hasn't.
She's young. She probably just forgot.
Told you.
Hello?
What?
-You must be John Taylor? -Yes.
Right over here.
I'm fine.
-You're sure? -Yeah.
-The baby's okay? -Baby's fine. I'm sure.
The perpetrator, Mr. Mitchell, he'll be taken in...
...and charged with domestic battery. He acknowledged striking Miss Walsh.
-You're not gonna let him out, are you? -He makes bail, we can't hold him.
-But he'll hurt me. -He tries to harm you...
...you call us, we'll arrest him again.
You may wanna try to find another place to stay.
I don't have another place to stay.
Yes, you do.
He hurt my face.
I am so sorry.
-It's okay. -I am so sorry.
-No, it's okay. -Anna!
-Anna! -Hey.
-Anna! -Let's go!
-Anna! -Don't move!
-Hey, hey! -Get down. Get down!
I got him. All right. Get him in the car.
-Come on. Come on! Get in the car! -Anna.
Oh, my God.
You're okay, all right? We're gonna take care of you.
You're gonna be fine. Let's get you inside.
Hey, John.
How the hell are you?
I need you to listen to me, Mike.
I need you to really understand what I'm about to say.
This is a restraining order.
It's already happened.
This is a case for domestic abuse...
...battery and child endangerment.
This is a letter to the DA...
...who's a friend of mine...
...recommending no less than seven criminal counts.
These haven't been filed yet.
So, what's gonna happen now is this:
You're gonna stay away from Anna.
We're never gonna see you again. She's never gonna see you again.
In 10 days, you're gonna be shipped off to the Middle East.
And when you return, your money's gonna be waiting for you.
But if you ever...
...come near Anna again...
...I'm gonna bust your head open.
Then I'm gonna make sure your punk ass is sent somewhere...
...that's gonna make the Middle East look like Club Med.
Have I made myself clear?
Oh, yeah.
-Crystal. -Good.
Opening 3.
Have a nice life.
Counselor.
Thanks for the visit.
How is she?
She's sleeping in the guest house.
-Where'd you go? -I just went to...
...make sure Mike wouldn't be a problem anymore.
I was watching her sleep.
She looks so pretty.
John, it's okay. You can admit it. She's beautiful.
Yeah, well, I don't know.
I guess if you're the type of guy...
...who likes...
...soft, young...
...pert breasts.
An ass that you can bounce a quarter off of.
But I hadn't really noticed, I have to tell you.
Oh, sometimes I forget how good of a liar you are.
I love you.
I love you so much.
You know that, right?
-Good morning. -Good morning.
-Good morning, hon. -Good morning.
Thank you.
Anna, we'd like you to stay here with us in our guest house.
We'd like you to take time off of work. We'll pay you whatever you were making.
We'll get you a car...
...so you don't feel trapped. Come and go as you please.
-Are you serious? -Yeah.
We talked about it. We feel more comfortable...
-...knowing you're here most of the time. -And knowing that you're safe.
It's just.... I think Mike--
Anna, Mike hurt you.
And he's not gonna be around anymore.
Not for a very long time.
Now, you are doing this incredible thing for us.
It's the least we can do.
Let us do something nice for you, okay?
-Okay. -Okay.
Thank you.
Well, she is now officially better than me in yoga.
Well, she's 10 weeks pregnant. Give it another five weeks...
...you'll be able to take her down.
Because yoga's all about who wins, right?
She says it's got her body going crazy.
For sex, for men.
I guess it's the hormones.
Anything from the boyfriend?
No. Nothing.
He just shipped out without even contacting her.
I'm glad he's gone.
-Ready for the associate's dinner? -All set.
Laura, sweetie, come on, let's go.
I'm coming!
Sometime tonight, sweetheart.
Oh, my God.
You look like a movie star.
You like?
I love that dress.
You look absolutely stunning.
Can I take your picture?
All right.
Listen, you have both of our cell numbers.
And we'll be home by midnight.
Okay, 1.
I'll get the car.
So beautiful.
It's amazing the way he is with you.
You are so lucky.
Thank you. Thank you, Anna.
And you have a good night.
-You too. Have fun. -All right. We will.
"Today...
...I am happy.
I am in control of my life.
I will experience the joy of pure love."
Sorry.
I was watching TV.
-I guess I fell asleep. -No problem.
I fall asleep there all the time.
I'd like a cup of coffee.
Doctor says I'm allowed one cup a day.
Okay.
-One cup. -Thank you.
-God, it's so old. -Miss Havisham.
She's not old, she's ancient.
I was never really a cat person, but Laura loves her.
All these years, she treated that cat just like she was her baby.
But when the real baby comes...
...we'll have to see how old Miss Havisham reacts then, huh?
I told Laura she's lucky to have you.
A husband who really loves his wife.
Well, I like to think that I'm the lucky one.
I knew you would say something like that.
Do you wanna feel?
Here. Give me your hand.
I'll show you what it feels like.
Wait, I shouldn't say "it."
It's not an it.
He's your baby boy.
You think it's a boy?
I know it's a boy.
I can feel him.
He isn't even an inch long yet.
But you can feel where my tummy's starting to change.
Feel that?
How it's harder?
Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I can feel it.
He's growing.
Changing every day.
Can I admit something to you?
It's a little weird that I'm pregnant with your baby.
That you're inside of me...
...in that way.
Yeah, yeah, that is strange, isn't it?
Yeah.
But we're grateful for that.
Because without you, we couldn't do any of this.
I like it.
Yep.
Hey, listen, next week we're having our annual charity event...
...here at the house. You should join us.
-What's it for? -We like to raise money...
...for the Boys and Girls Club of America.
You're amazing. Yes, I will come.
What's so important?
Good to see you too.
I missed you, baby.
I'm so glad you miss me.
You look nice.
I mean, living up there in that beautiful big house, that must be nice.
Did you know that you have their only embryo?
-It's a baby now. -And they don't have any more.
And in the eyes of the law...
...since it's inside of you, it belongs to us.
We can decide to keep it for ourselves anytime we want.
-But I-- I thought-- -Don't think.
It's not your thing, baby.
I'm the brains on this.
You're just the uterus.
So here's what you're gonna do.
Every single month, you're gonna say...
...that you're changing your mind, and you're keeping it.
And they'll pay.
Maybe four grand, maybe more.
Mike.
They've been really good to me.
John really wants to be a father.
Does he?
Does he really?
You're into him.
What do you think is gonna happen, Anna?
You'll live happily ever after with him in that big house?
He doesn't care about you.
You are like a cow to him.
I'll do it. I'll do it, Mike. I'll do it.
I know you will.
I'll do it. I'll tell them.
I'll do it for you, baby.
Anything you want.
It's from the firm. And tell Laura she absolutely tops herself...
-...every time you guys do this. -I'll do that. Thanks.
Nobody knows this yet, but Grafton Industries...
...is unofficially floating settlement offers.
-You're not gonna settle with them? -You kidding me?
All this time, you've been telling me we had them by the balls.
I just wasn't sure.
But now I am.
This is gonna lock up partner for you, John.
You take them to trial.
Gut them like a fish.
I'll do that.
Look, I was talking to Anna earlier.
I didn't realize she was your second cousin, man.
-She is amazing. -Todd, she's 21.
My calculation, that's....
That's legal plus three, right?
I'm just checking with you. You wouldn't mind if I asked her out, would you?
No. You can ask her out.
Normally, this is the part of the evening...
...where John asks all of you to reach for your checkbooks.
And I'm sure he'll manage to get that in still...
...but first, I wanted everyone to know...
...how important the Boys and Girls Clubs of America is to us.
Especially to my husband.
John loves children, and they love him.
Thank you, John.
I'd also like--
I'd also like to thank all of you here...
...for coming tonight and....
Thank you.
Thank you.
Now you can all take out your checkbooks.
Is that the dress you gave her?
No. It's not.
You want me to go talk to her?
No, I will.
Excuse me, gentlemen.
-Anna. -What's the matter?
That's not the dress I gave you.
God, I'm so sorry.
It's just, the one that you gave me didn't really fit.
I was gonna ask you, but you were so busy with the party.
I can-- I can go change...
-...right now. -No, it's fine.
You look great.
Thank you for staying late. I appreciate it.
-Thank you. Thanks. -Thank you.
Well, no one fell in the pool.
The rain stayed away.
I'd call that a win.
I found it in your record collection.
Where's Laura?
Oh, yeah, she crashed about an hour ago.
Has to catch a flight at 6 in the morning for work.
So how'd our little story hold up?
It was great.
I was acting out a part.
I had a secret in me that no one knew.
Except you.
You know everybody loves you?
-Shut up. -I'm serious.
It made me think that I made a good choice for the baby.
Well, I thought that we were the ones that made the choice.
I could've said no.
True.
You're gonna make a great dad.
Well, I'm glad it was you.
I am gonna take a bath before bed.
Thank you for everything, John.
Is everything okay?
Something's knocking against the guest house.
Is there coffee?
Yeah. Coming right up.
When does Laura get home?
Tuesday.
So, look, about last night....
Todd Decker, he was....
He was asking about you.
The guy in the gray suit? You know, he was staring at me all night.
Had to be uncomfortable for you.
Can't blame a person for staring.
It just means they like what they see.
Actually, I prefer older guys.
I always have.
Mike was the youngest guy I ever dated.
-Is that your phone? -They'll leave a message.
So I have to go into the office today.
-On a Sunday? -Yeah.
I got an important deposition. You can order out.
I'm not gonna be back until late.
How about we go out to the lake house?
Just you and I, a weekend before the baby comes.
As soon as you get back from Houston.
I'd like that.
John, you're not gonna like this...
...but Chef Folse wants me out here tomorrow as well.
-You're right. I don't like it. -Should I say no?
Should I just come home now?
No, go ahead and stay. It's okay.
-Hey. -I hope you're sitting down.
Chef Folse is offering me a major promotion.
Really?
That's the reason he brought me down, so he could offer me...
-...the CEO position. -Congratulations.
But I thought we talked about, you know--
We have six months before the baby's born.
I told him I could run the company while we look for a permanent replacement.
Why not just turn it down, sweetheart?
I think I should take it...
...even if it is only for six months. But that's assuming you agree.
I mean, I'd have to spend a few days a month up here.
But that wouldn't be until later in the year.
And you could come up for some weekends.
Babe, are you happy for me?
-I really wanna do this. -Yeah, no, sweetheart. Definitely.
I'm-- I'm definitely happy for you.
-It's unbelievable. -Yeah?
And you like spending time with Anna, right?
She might even have a little thing for you.
It's cute. Whatever.
I mean, you're a big boy, you can handle a little attention.
Just congratulate me.
-Jesus. What the...? -What?
No, congratulations, sweetheart. I am so proud of you.
I love you.
I'll see you tomorrow.
I love you too, babe.
Anna!
-Hi, John. -What are you doing?
Look, do you see this?
This is me and Laura. She is my wife, okay?
This is our home. Do you not understand that?
I don't wanna have to say anything to her.
Maybe I should go.
No, wait, hold on. No, no. Please, please.
Okay, look.
Maybe-- Maybe I said something to encourage you in all this.
And if I did do that, then I am sorry.
Hello!
-Hey. -Hi.
Didn't wanna wait until tomorrow, so I grabbed the next flight.
Good. That's-- That's good. Congratulations on everything.
Hello, Laura.
Laura just got a promotion at her company.
Well, it's only until the baby comes.
-How are you? -Everything is fine.
-Welcome home. -It's good to be back.
It's good to have you back.
Hey, baby.
Is anybody home?
Anybody wanna make me a goddamn quiche?
Mike, stop it!
You're drunk. Okay? I was gonna call you.
Before they find out this whole thing's a scam...
...you're gonna tell them that you changed your mind.
-You'll get them to give you money. -No.
Shut up!
You're gonna take that money.
And you and I are heading to Arizona...
...because there is a guy there...
...that's gonna give us another $15,000...
...for a nice, new baby.
If you don't...
...I'm gonna come back here later...
...and I'm gonna tell Laura and John...
...you wanted to take their last baby from them.
No.
They'll hate you.
Clean this up.
Here you go.
Hey! Hey!
Get-- Get back here!
Leave a message and I'll call you right back.
God.
It's so goddamn typical of you.
Some asshole buys you some fancy shit...
...and you fall head over heels for him.
Call me.
Stupid bitch.
Yeah.
You're the brains, Mike.
I am happy.
I am in control...
...of my life.
I feel the joy...
...of pure love.
Hi, this is Laura Taylor. Leave a message, and I'll--
I can't hold the room. I'm sorry.
You know what, let's just go ahead and....
-Should we? -I--
-Okay. All right. -I left a message.
That's the femur.
It's a boy.
I told you.
She's right.
That's definitely a boy.
Honey. No, wait.
It's a boy.
-It's a boy. -No, babe...
...just get down here as soon as you can.
That's my son.
I'm looking at my son.
Look at his head.
That's my son.
-Thank you. -Thanks.
I'm sorry. I had it in my schedule as 2:00.
-Maybe you just entered it wrong. -No, I didn't enter it wrong. I--
Damn it. I know I didn't. I-- I--
Someone changed it in my phone! I know that I put it in right.
I booked my flights around it! I know that I did! Damn it!
-I-- I-- -Laura. Stop it. Please.
Please.
This is the only time we're ever gonna be able to do this.
It's all right. Just don't worry about it.
Let's just go somewhere. I don't know, lunch.
I can't.
I left a client at the airport.
I have to go back.
Anna Walsh on 2.
Hello?
I'm so excited. A boy.
I knew it. Let's have lunch today. To celebrate.
Just you and me. I promise it'll be fun.
-Anna, is there anything actually wrong? -Why?
Because you shouldn't be calling me at work.
Okay? I cannot sneak away, I will not have lunch with you.
I have appointments all afternoon. Like I said earlier--
Mr. Taylor's office. Please hold.
-Anna Walsh. -Tell her I left for the day.
-What is it? -Why are you lying to me?
What are you talking about?
I'd never lie to you, John.
I've always told you the truth.
But not you.
Why are you saying that?
Because I'm right here.
This is for you.
A congratulations.
All right. No, we're not gonna do this.
We're not gonna do this.
Let's do something fun.
Nope. We're not doing anything fun.
What a surprise. Laura's working late again!
Why did you think she would make a good mother?
-Enough! -We're so different.
She couldn't even stay pregnant.
I wonder if she actually even wanted to.
Are you sure she had miscarriages?
Because you know there are ways to fake that, right?
-Are you out of your mind? -You need to be nicer to me, John.
I will leave. The law says I can.
This is my baby. Mike says we can sell it.
-John! -You know what?
Leave. Go. Get out of the house!
-You don't mean that. -Oh, yes, I do.
I'll tell Laura everything. It will kill her. It will break her heart.
But you know what? We'll survive it.
We'll pick up the pieces and move on because that's what we do.
But what about you? You'll be alone.
You'll be broke, with a kid that's not even really yours.
So go for it.
Leave.
I just want you.
-White here. -Hey, Roland, it's John.
Hey, what's up? What, the old man needs another rock looked under?
No, actually, I need a favor. And it's not business.
-It's personal. -Sure, John.
There's a guy I'd like you to look into. His name is Mike Mitchell.
He's Navy, based in Louisiana.
He's been deployed about two months. Just need a history on him.
Anything you can find would be great.
I'm on it. Anything for you, John.
My man.
You wanted to see me?
Have a seat, John.
Look, you know the firm monitors computer use...
...and e-mail accounts.
The system's set up to automatically snag...
...certain types of files, things that could...
...embarrass the company.
Todd recognized her from your party.
She's not your relative, is she?
No. She's our surrogate.
And I don't see how this is company business.
Anna has been getting prenatal care from a clinic...
...that happens to be a subsidiary of Grafton Industries.
She is a patient of the very people...
...we're about to take to court.
That's a big deal, John.
I'm giving the case to Todd.
I hope you understand.
I'm sorry, John. That video got bounced straight to the old man.
I think I just lost my job.
You ready for things to get worse?
I don't think that's possible.
Remember that guy you asked me to run a check on? Mitchell?
-Yeah. -Two years ago...
...he was discharged from the military for some assaults.
Regular dickhead shit.
But after I saw the video, I got to thinking about that girl.
-Your girl. -Yeah, and...?
Well, her real name isn't Walsh.
She got married at 19 in Little Rock.
Before that, she was Anna Devost.
Which is why the surrogate agency missed this.
Marijuana. A DUI.
Nothing horrible, really.
But not exactly the picture of innocence.
So I dug a little deeper.
She was born in Memphis.
Her parents died when she was 3.
Raised by foster parents.
She lived with them for 12 years.
Now, this took some work to get to.
When she was 16, she attacks her foster dad...
...with a pair of scissors.
Killed him.
Seems she had a reason.
The guy was sexually abusing her.
State takes over...
...puts her in psych.
She's a minor, so the records are sealed.
But when she turns 18, she walks out and is gone.
She's dangerous, John.
You're right where you should be.
And you slowly begin to reawaken yourself...
...with small movements.
You appreciate your mind and your body...
...for the accomplishments of this lesson.
Thank you so much.
-Thank you. -Okay, it's my turn.
This was John's great-grandmother's...
...and then my mother and then mine.
I always wanted you to have it.
John told me about this.
Isn't it lovely?
Oh, that's so cute.
Thank you.
What are you doing here in my office?
You picked me.
It wasn't the other way around.
When you're around me...
...my whole body reacts.
I can't think.
I can't breathe.
I need you.
I know.
You want to be a good man.
But how do you know you love your wife?
If you kiss me...
...what if you found out that this was more real?
-Kiss me. -No, I'm not gonna kiss you.
-Kiss me. -No.
Or I'll tell her things that will make her leave you.
Kiss me, John.
-Please, John. -No. No.
-Kiss me. John. -No. No!
I can't live like this.
Look...
...nobody knows what's gonna happen in the future.
What do you mean?
I mean, I know what you want.
But you're gonna have to trust me.
Okay?
I need you to go back to bed.
So will you do that for me?
I love you, John.
I know.
No!
-You asshole! -Whoa, wait a minute. Hold up!
You lied to me! Stay away from me.
-Come here. -I'll kill you!
Anna.
-Stay away from me. -Anna.
Leave me alone!
I hate you!
Okay. Give me the knife. Give me the knife.
-Give me the knife. -No! No!
-Give me the knife. Give me the knife. -I wanna leave!
Relax. Just relax.
-Relax. -Anna!
Stop it!
What the hell is going on?
He doesn't love you!
He told me!
Every time he screws me, that's what he tells me!
-What are you talking about? -I hate you!
Anna, please.
Stop this.
-What's going on here? -Please don't let him hurt me.
-We got a call, a disturbance. -No. She is having our baby.
She has to come back inside.
He's been screwing me. Every night.
Using me. Lying to me.
He told me that he loves me.
-That's not true. -I hate him!
Come in the house. Let me talk to you.
-Don't come any further. -Listen....
-Sir, you need to step back. -Listen, she is carrying our baby.
Sir, did you hear me? Step back. Now!
Now.
Okay, drive careful, ma'am.
None of what she said was true, okay? None of it. Babe, she is lying!
-I never even touched her. -Whatever it was...
...you have been lying to me!
And now she's gone with our baby!
I've never lied to you.
-Did you sleep with her? -No.
-Did you kiss her? -No.
Then why didn't you say anything?
I didn't wanna ruin the experience for you.
I thought that I could handle it, okay? I knew that I was handling it.
And then it just.... It just got worse.
And then she threatened to take the baby and....
Because I couldn't have a baby...
-...that I'm not a woman... -No, no.
-...that I can't handle it, you.... -No, I knew you could.
-I knew, I just.... -No, you didn't.
-I didn't wanna ruin it. -You lied.
Baby, I just didn't wanna ruin it.
I wanted it for you.
I wish I could say that it never happens, but it does.
So when does it become a kidnapping?
Never. It never becomes kidnapping.
Even though it's your egg, fertilized by your husband's sperm...
...it's your embryo...
...but it's growing inside her uterus.
The law views her as the birth mother.
And when she gives birth, it is her child...
...until she relinquishes that right.
Yes, thank you, I'd like to hold for the doctor.
I'm not gonna make partner.
Why?
Anna came to the office, caused a lot of problems.
Think Cooper's gonna let me go.
Dr. Park just got a notice from a pharmacy in Mexico...
-...where Anna bought Cytotec. -She's in Mexico?
-No, she had it shipped here. -What is Cytotec?
Well, it's normally prescribed for ulcers...
...but if a pregnant woman takes enough of it, it could induce labor...
...or terminate.
Where is the medicine being shipped?
I got the address. Let's go.
Hello?
-Is she there? -No.
No, she's not here. Where are you?
I want you to come back.
Not to her. Just to you.
God, I miss you.
-Isn't that crazy? -I can meet you.
I can meet you today, right now. Where are you?
It can't be like it was.
Everything has to change.
I swear to you, if she does anything to hurt my child, I will kill her.
She hasn't been here today.
Box is empty.
I think if she calls again, you know, I could...
...lure her to a public place, have the police there waiting for her.
Except she's not guilty of anything.
She is guilty. Okay?
She ordered a drug to end the pregnancy.
You want me to explain that to a judge?
I mean, you'd win the case, but you'd lose your child.
She could kill your baby today.
You don't have time to bring this to the police.
She was part of the scam and then she fell in love with you. That's what we have.
She could have that baby any minute now. She could be disappearing.
Oh, that girl ain't going nowhere. She loves you.
You gotta put her at ease.
-You need to make her happy. -Make her happy?
-Yes. -No. I know this girl.
Making her happy is not an option.
You're wrong. You're wrong. You give her what she wants.
Convince her you're in love with her. Tell her that you're leaving me.
-I'm not gonna do that. -Yes.
She is in love with you. If you make her believe...
...that you feel the same way, she will stay with you.
She will have the baby for you.
-Laura's right. -No, she isn't.
In her mind, I am keeping the two of you apart.
You convince her that you love her.
When you meet her, you have to make her believe you.
That you want to have the baby with her and not with me.
I don't wanna know what you have to do. I don't ever...
...need to hear about it.
But you do whatever it takes to bring my baby back.
You should take her to the lake house.
Tell her that you're thinking of moving there.
With her.
Stay with me.
The new exhibit's right that way.
Wait, Anna.
Anna.
Oh, my God.
I love it.
It's so beautiful.
Yeah, it was my father's. Laura hates it.
I guess I should've sold it...
...but part of me always wanted to live here.
God, I love it so much, John.
Can we live here?
Just us?
Yes.
After I file those divorce papers.
Just us.
I'm gonna make you so happy, John.
I want you to know...
...everything that I am...
...is yours.
All of me...
...everything...
...forever.
Laura?
Laura?
I couldn't sleep.
It's beautiful.
A leap of faith.
Yeah.
I can't stay long, because I told her that....
Yeah.
I told her I had to pick up some papers.
Okay.
Laura, I....
-It's okay. -No. I...
-...just... -It's okay.
Come here.
She's gonna stay at the lake house tonight.
She agreed to go to the doctor's with me tomorrow.
It's happening. Contractions.
I'm okay. I'm going to St. Agnes Hospital.
Come as soon as you can.
It's our baby.
-I have to go there. -No. No, no.
-She cannot see you. -John.
I know, just trust me. Okay?
Please, just trust me.
Excuse me. I'm looking for a patient. Anna Walsh.
-Are you a relative? Okay. -She's having my son, yes.
-I got here as soon as I could. -Thanks for coming.
No, I'm sorry. I don't have a patient listed under the last name Walsh.
Try Taylor. My last name is Taylor.
-No. No Taylors. -That's-- That's impossible.
No, there has to be a Taylor or a Walsh in there.
-No, I have neither. -She's not here, John.
She never checked in.
Where the hell could she be?
Miss Havisham?
Miss Havisham, where are you?
Miss Havisham....
Are you hiding in the pantry?
What the hell is that smell?
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
Oh, my God.
Oh, Jesus.
Hi, this is Laura Taylor. Leave a message--
Oh, God.
Okay. Okay.
911, what's your emergency?
Please, come now. She's having the baby.
No!
No, no!
She's dropping. Let's get those fluids going.
Laura. Laura, can you hear me?
She's unresponsive.
-Wide open. -Okay.
We got a female, early 40s. Possible head trauma.
Pressure 85/55 and dropping.
All right, let's cross-type and match.
Make sure the CAT scan....
Hey. Can you hear me?
John?
You're gonna be fine.
Doctor says you just have a bad concussion, some stitches...
...but you're gonna be okay.
Where's my baby?
We can't find Anna.
It's Roland. Yeah.
I'm across the river at Montgomery Hospital.
Anna walked into ER in labor after she attacked Laura.
Gave birth to a healthy baby boy, according to her records.
She left later that evening and took the baby with her.
-Where did she go? -She disappeared.
I told the police to put an APB...
...out on her in every city she's ever lived in...
...including that military base in Pensacola where Mike was stationed.
John, she has that baby...
...she's gonna wanna be someplace safe.
-And close by. -All right, thanks.
The lake house. It's gotta be the lake house.
-No, babe. What are you doing? -John.
-Please, I have to go. -I can't let you do that.
John, I am going to get my child back.
No. No, no, no.
I let you come with me, but this is as far as you go.
Look, we know that she's dangerous.
Just wait in the car.
Hey.
Shit.
Oh, God! What happened?
I got you. Just get in the car.
-I got it. -Come on. We gotta move.
We better hurry up.
Oh, shit.
Cover the baby!
did I end up here again? [Bridget] How in hell
Fuck off.
actually began the way [Bridget] My birthday of all my birthdays.
[mum] Hello, darling. you a happy birthday! Just ringing to wish
Mum? It's 6:00 a.m.
I'm doing the FaceTime.
It's really marvelous! Una taught me.
Mum, the point of FaceTime
to put the phone to your ear. is that you haven't got
Oh! Silly me!
Oh! There you are!
This time, 43 years ago,
in an attempt to coax you out. I was having a lamb biryani
Twenty-three hours of labor. Never been the same down there.
the gift of childbirth. It's a miracle,
[Bridget] Here it comes!
[Bridget] Here it comes! Penny Husband-Bosworth's son on the Internet! sells his sperm
need a man, Bridget. You don't even
Some people have marvelous lives I mean, look at you. without them!
A nice flat, a lovely job. Nice flat!
the phone down now, Mum. [blowing kisses] I'm putting
Say happy birthday to Bridget. [mum] Oh...
Colin!
Happy birthday to Bridget.
Thank you!
[mum] I love you, darling. Now don't forget,
to head up my media campaign. I'm counting on you
council elections, Mum. Not the US Primaries. It's the parish
[Bridget] Annual phone call from Mum reminding me to take my ovaries out of retirement.
The truth was that by now,
have had a little baby to love I thought I would with the chisel-jawed love of my life.
But sometimes, life gives you shallower compensations.
I was finally down And at least
I was finally down And at least -to my perfect weight. -[whistles]
Buongiorno, Miss Bridget.
[Bridget] There was life in the old dog yet.
been put out to grass. Hadn't exactly
[gasps] Ding dong.
all these things But this year, into sharper focus were brought
attend quite so soon. I hadn't expected to by an event
Hi.
So, how are you feeling? Are you okay?
Mmm. Yeah.
Just can't believe he's gone, really.
His death seems to have hit the Eastern European
teenage modeling community particularly hard.
the flight recorder, but still no bodies. They found
that he should have died going down in the bush. Strangely fitting
Shh. -[clears throat] -Sorry. Oops.
celebrate the life gathered here to [priest] We are
of Daniel Vivian Cleaver.
and wonderful son. Daniel was a kind
is he doing here? [whispers] Fuck. What the fuck
[priest] A loving uncle and brother.
he's like, wanting to do the decent thing. Oh, you know what
Is that his wife?
Mmm. get over losing Mr. Darcy? [Bridget] Did I ever
Was he my Mr. Right?
Oh, Christ.
of outstanding charm [priest] A man and charisma.
Just a bit emotional.
to invite his loved ones [priest] I would like up to share
memories of Daniel. some of their
[Bridget] Daniel could be very sensitive.
the only woman in the world. Make you feel like you were
I first met Daniel in Moscow.
and quoted Keats by heart. rowing on the Serpentine He once took me
Keats by heart! He could quote
"Where be ye going, you Devon Maid?
there in the basket?" "And what have ye
there in the basket? "And what have ye
just fresh from the dairy, "Ye tight little fairy
some cream if I ask it?" "Will you give me
He did it to everyone.
like to say a few words? Would anybody else
Say something for his mum.
Get up, go on. [whispers]
Daniel was a man
of us here today, who touched many including me.
Oh, dear.
This is when Daniel would say, "Shut up, Jones."
And he would be right, because all I really need to say is,
I will miss you terribly. Dear Daniel,
We all will.
-[Bridget] Yes, very good. -[Jude] Give you a call?
-Bye, Bridget. -Bye. Bye.
-Bridget. -Oh! Mark!
This is Camilla.
Hello.
Bridget. An old friend.
Well, less old, more childhood! [chuckles]
So, nice memorial,
as memorials go. Almost makes one look forward to one's own.
Almost makes one look forward to one's own.
Yes, well...
Goodbye.
Goodbye!
[Bridget] Maybe that's the reason Mark Darcy and I never made it.
a verbally incontinent I always felt like old maid
even when we were together.
Still, I wasn't going to dwell on the negatives.
At least no one at work knew it was my birthday.
how old I was going to be. Or, indeed,
[all] Surprise!
Happy birthday, Bridget! -[woman] -Gosh!
[Bridget] Or so I thought.
Who told you?
So many candles! It's so hot.
♪ Happy 43rd birthday to you ♪ [all]
♪ Happy 43rd birthday to you ♪
[Bridget] Isn't there some sort of statute of limitations
sodding candles on a cake about the number of
once you get to a certain age?
to see what Reuters Josh, I need you the attacks on Ramallah. is saying about
We might need a live link.
[Bridget] I may have been another year older and still single,
always take consolation but I could top news producer. in my job as
changing the world today? So, how will I be
is the exclusive interview Well, our main feature
Secretary about NGochi. with the Foreign
OMG. How did you do that?
-NGochi. -NGochi.
-You're good at that! -I know.
I've been practicing. NGochi.
NGochi.
-NGochi. -NGochi.
It's harder than you think! -NGochi? -NGochi.
have great new 30-something [Bridget] Plus, work colleagues
with children and marriage. who are not obsessed
celebrating tonight? How do we plan on
Well, night out with the gang.
involves group sex. Please say that
Gang bangs?
Ooh. We like to do that.
I know a smashing little club round the back of Berwick Street.
would be a fine thing. [Bridget] Chance
I'm beginning to think I've passed my sexual sell-by date.
women like you now, Bridge. No! There are names for
You're a cougar. You are a MILF.
I'm not even a mum. I'm not a MILF.
-I'm a spinster. I'm a SPILF. -[laughs]
till we're on air. Three minutes
It's called Voyeurz, with a 'Z'.
that Cathy sent you. You tell them
And if you go on a Thursday, there's a Chinese buffet,
all you can eat, as it were.
[Bridget] But whose advice was, nevertheless, too modern for me. sometimes a tad
-It's me. Checking talkback. -[Miranda] Yep.
You didn't freeze your eggs by any chance, did you?
they're hard-boiled by now. No. I imagine
You know what, Bridge? This weekend,
you and me need to go out and get stuck into some serious...
-Binge drinking, a dangerous scourge on society. -[bell tolls]
Is new legislation needed?
don't talk between the bongs. Bridget, Miranda. I've told you,
Stick to the questions on the cue cards.
-[director] Miranda, cue. -[bell tolls]
will be live in the studio The Foreign Secretary
to talk about the looming crisis in Muribundi.
You could always try online dating again.
Half an hour later, The other night I was on Tinder.
-I'm having a three-way with... -[director] Miranda, cue!
Special Representative for Prince Andrew, the Royal Trade and Investment...
You did that on purpose.
...has just written his first children's book.
He had a massive cock.
Live in the studio, I'm joined by Foreign Secretary, George Wilkins,
from war-ravaged Muribundi... who has just returned
Miranda, I'm in your ear. Just follow my lead.
...where the assassination of bloody dictator, Charles NGochi,
-has resulted in civil war. -One take.
Come back to four. Four.
was this a military coup? [Miranda] Minister,
Well, the signs are that NGochi's own generals a rather bloody way. did take him out in
Hi, Tom. Can't talk. [whispers]
Daniel's memorial? [Tom] How was
he's gone, actually. It's just sad. I can't believe
he's gone actually. I can't believe It's just sad.
I don't think there was any particular sadness in his passing.
amounted to genocide. His persecution of the Unbutu people
That is well documented.
I know he had his faults.
Well, I know he had his faults.
a massive arsehole. He could be
a massive arsehole. He could be
But I miss him. We all do.
But I miss him. We all do.
certainly a very colorful [Wilkins] Well, he was character on the world stage, Miranda.
I grant you that.
the genocide resulting in But I think 10,000 of his own people, the deaths of over
men, women and children,
men, women and children, on the wrong side of history. probably did rather put him
At least he was never boring.
he was never boring. Well, at least
[director] One, two and three. Clear.
a spirit of democracy Do you think into West Africa can carry over
now NGochi's dead?
that the spirit of democracy Do you think, Minister,
now that NGochi is dead? into West Africa can carry over
Now that is an interesting question. Finally.
Running out of time here. [woman] Miranda, wrap it up! [director]
Briefly, please, Minister.
-It is a complicated issue. -Yes or a no?
make it the last answer. Miranda,
Let's hope so.
Let's hope so. Thank you for joining us on the sofa today. I'll take that.
-[director] Stand by. -Over to you, Toby. Toby on one.
[Toby] And now, what if a man was to experience labor?
Miranda, Bridget. Well, thank you,
You couldn't just behave yourselves management team were here? when the new
management team? They're the new
That is Alice Peabody, new Brand Manager.
Apparently, Hard News is too old-fashioned, too serious,
the smiling assassin and she is anybody older than her. brought in to sack
Everybody's older than her.
soup in my cupboard I've got tins of older than her.
Look at them all.
and their ironic beards. With their apps,
could give Bridget some sex. Maybe one of them
What?
Does Brid... Do you need sex?
-Yes! -No!
Which is why I'm taking her on a girls' weekend
to beat all girls' weekends.
Bridget, isn't it?
Yes. Nice to meet...
Yes. Nice to meet... Team meeting tomorrow morning. We can do introductions then.
-[Bridget yawns] -9:00 a.m.
an hour earlier from now on. We should all start
You think she saw that? Quite possibly not.
don't wanna come out with me and my crew? And you're sure you Mmm-hmm.
let the old gang down. Thanks, but can't
They're stay-at-home mums now. They'd be disappointed.
Huh.
Thank God for the gays!
in the room with you today, fears you're bringing [Tom] Now whatever
take those fears I want you to
and I want you to tell them to fuck the fuck off!
-[all cheer] -[Tom] Yeah!
-Are you ready for this? Are you ready for this? -[all cheering]
Then ride, you sexy bitches. Ride!
Ride!
Look, I'm so sorry, Bridget,
have to blow you out, too. but I'm actually gonna
Oh! to tell you this today, I didn't wanna have
but Eduardo and I are adopting.
"Adopting"?
What, a baby?
Yes. A baby. [chuckles]
Or gayby, in our case.
That's fantastic news!
Tom!
I'm going to Bogotá tomorrow Yeah.
so I've gotta go and pack. to start the paperwork,
Wonderful! Go!
-Happy birthday. Have fun. -[kisses]
Congratulations! Thanks, darling. Bye.
[Bridget] Fucking excellent.
I wound up back here again. And that was how
The last barren husk in London.
loves of my life, And of the two and the other is dead. one is married,
New birthday resolutions. Right.
affairs of the heart I, Bridget Jones, am done with
and dedicating my autumn years to the pursuit of hedonism.
Will hang only with new, free-spirited friends like Miranda.
And when the going gets tough,
a luxury spa weekend! the tough go on
What the fuck?
[Miranda] Love the shoes.
[Miranda] I didn't tell you because you wouldn't have come!
it's been five years. Seriously,
yourself out of this You gotta shake purdah you've been in self-imposed
with your precious Mark Darcy. ever since you split up
I barely think of him. Rubbish.
[Miranda] What you need is a good shafting.
good old-fashioned, You need some lie-back-and-think-of-England bonking.
sexual free-for-alls. And festivals are
Like Sodom and Gomorrah, with tofu.
you gotta sleep with. First man you meet,
First man?
no for an answer. I'm not taking
I'm gonna find our backstage passes.
You get the maps.
Wanna know where you are? [volunteer 1]
Maps!
[Bridget] I may be old and inappropriately dressed, but at least I look fucking amazing!
I didn't wear my heels. That's exactly why
[Bridget] Ding fucking dong!
May I?
Thank you.
Oh! [chuckles] [Jack] Ah. There you go.
It fits.
[Miranda] Bridget!
Bridget!
wicked stepmother? Is that your
Yes.
I'd better go before she has me sweeping fireplaces all day.
-You're welcome. -Thank you.
[Bridget] Ah-ha. Birthday resolution number two.
the way to a man's heart Must remember is not through beauty, sex or love...
It's Jack.
It's Jack. the ability to fall arse [Bridget] ...but merely over tit in the mud.
By the way.
Right.
Which one's ours?
Uh, let's try up here.
it's not camping. It's glamping. And anyway,
[Bridget] Putting a "GL" in front of it doesn't make it any better.
Calling him Gladolf Hitler
suddenly make you forget all the unpleasantness. wouldn't
Oh. Fuck me!
[both] NGochi!
[both] NGochi!
[both] NGochi!
in the afternoon! It's 2:30
I should be hoovering!
This is incredible!
We've got to get a photo!
Excuse me?
take a photo of us? if we ask you to Do you mind
-[Bridget] Thank you. -Yeah. Sure.
-Hey, what are you doing? -All right. You ready?
I was taking a photo. I thought you guys wanted a photo.
Yeah, we do. Of us.
Yes. Terribly sorry,
Yes. Terribly sorry, to get a photo of us backstage would be really fun but we thought it
glamorous people. among all these
the guy from Bargain Hunt. I think that's
It would be great if you could get him in the shot.
Quick, quick, quick!
So, you don't want me in the photo at all?
Oh, God. You can lose the attitude, babes.
Is it really that difficult?
riff-raff backstage nowadays. God. They let any old
I don't know. I thought he was kind of cute.
But he looks familiar.
the Starbucks in Balham! I think he works at
Here we go!
One, two, three, sing!
Oh, my God!
I know!
It's the guy from Starbucks!
-[man] Crowd-surf! -Whoo!
Miranda!
[softly] Miranda!
Miranda?
Shit.
Hey, Miranda.
Oh, God!
I have to admit, that was fun. [laughs]
And you're right.
a good shafting. What I need is
lie-back-and-think-of-England Some good old-fashioned
bonking.
Well, sign me up.
[gasps] Oh, my God!
What are you doing in my yurt?
and luggage and possessions. With all your clothes
Yeah. It's as if made it my own. I've come in,
Wait, it's you.
The creature from the Black Lagoon.
Oh. Yes. Sorry.
really expect me to believe Well, you don't
that you accidentally crashed into my yurt, do you?
Oh! maybe I could help you. Since you're here,
he is the first man I met. [Bridget] Well,
one heck of a lot And his yurt is nicer than mine.
Bridget!
Where the fuck are you?
Bridget!
I'm so pissed!
[Miranda] Bridget!
I'm zorbing with Ed Sheeran!
♪ When my hands don't play The strings the same way ♪
I've just slept with a complete stranger! [Bridget] Oh, God!
a feckless prostitute. I'm nothing but
I'm an elegant older woman No, no. my own pleasure. taking men for
Or am I just a deluded, middle-aged fool?
Fuck it!
Miranda.
Good morning.
So, it lasted six hours? [Shazzer]
six hours, Mum? What lasted
Um, a puppet show that Auntie Bridge went to.
Six-hour puppet show?
Hello.
they little puppets or... So, tell me, were
very life-sized puppets?
his puppet in your mouth? And did he put
of puppet shows are behind me. God! I feel like my days [sighs]
I've had finger puppets.
And has he called?
work like that anymore. Well, it doesn't
with rugged troubadours at music festivals You just hook up
and there are no strings.
Puppets with no strings.
They're for little girls. Take the wings off. Come on.
-Where the fuck are you? -[Bridget] Hello?
lovely countryside Speeding through your christening. -[cars honking] -on our way to
Why is Auntie Bridget lying? No, we're not.
-Shh. -Shh. I thought you should know after Tom dropped out, Bridge,
to be the godfather. Giles asked Mark
-He did what? -What?
He really is a useless cock. Yes, I know.
Did it without asking me.
[Bridget] Oh, my God!
Mark Darcy again.
Twice in the space of a week, I turn up at church as rent-a-spinster.
-Where the fuck were you? -[people gasp]
Sorry. Sorry.
Sorry.
[priest] Good morning, and welcome.
[Bridget] Well, this isn't embarrassing at all. the altar with a baby. Mark Darcy and I at
-[photographer] That's lovely. -[camera shutter clicks] Okay, now. Nice big smiles. Looking at me.
-[camera shutter clicks] -Thank you. Lovely!
the godparents now, please? Okay. Can I just get
So, how are you?
Very well, thank you. How are you?
-Well. Thank you. -Mmm.
Are you here with your wife? I can't remember her name.
No, she couldn't make it. -Camilla. No, she... -Ah. Mmm.
You with anyone?
No, no. Not today. No.
Come on. It's not a funeral. [chuckles]
Can I get a couple of smiles out of you two, please?
Maybe give her a little kiss? You know, on the forehead there.
I was talking about the baby.
-[camera shutter clicks] -Lovely!
All right. I'll see you later, I shouldn't wonder.
[Bridget] Yeah.
for it with this thing. Unless I make a break
actually get any more awkward? [Bridget] Could this day
keep walking, keep walking! Just keep walking, keep walking,
Hello.
Hello.
How are you?
Very well, thanks. How are you?
I'm fine.
So am I.
Well, goodbye.
Goodbye.
-A whiskey, please. -A glass of wine.
-Big. Big glass. -Double.
Thank you.
I'd ask you to join me, but I'm pretty sure Gangnam Style kind of guy. you're not a big
I was only there very briefly. Where?
Gangnam.
What are we talking about?
Gangnam. Dancing.
Not the suburb of Seoul?
No.
Not familiar with Gangnam, the suburb.
"South of the Han River." It literally means
as the Paleolithic Period. It was inhabited as early
Suddenly seems so much less catchy!
you lovers out there. Now something for
"the erection section." We're entering
"erection" at a christening! Don't say fucking
to get some air? Would you like
I mean, some more air.
Sure.
have a cigarette? I don't suppose you happen to
No.
1,891 days ago. Gave up
Not that you're counting.
did you smoke? Since when
It's been a tense time. I don't.
Maybe I'm nervous.
Why?
You have a train in your hair.
I'm aware of that. [chuckles]
my many godchildren. Courtesy of one of
Seems to be stuck.
And this would be...
Cake?
Profiterole.
than a cake, I suppose. more of a dessert It's technically
What are you doing? You're married.
No, I'm not.
I'm getting a divorce. I mean, I am.
That's why she's not here.
Weren't you together at the memorial?
being supportive. No. She was just
She's gone back to The Hague, where she's now living and I'm not.
Oh, I'm so sorry, Mark.
Right at this precise moment, I'm not sorry at all.
♪ Sent shivers up my spine ♪ How the fuck am I supposed to get in here?
Again?
Mr. Darcy.
Bridget.
God, I've missed you.
Are we on schedule?
I have a flight to Khartoum tomorrow.
[Bridget] I'm so sorry, Mark. Had to leave.
Probably sounds pathetic, but I got scared.
for the best part of 10 years went round and round The fact that we
without ever making it across the finish line leads me to think
by ending it when we did. we did the best thing
still being on my own at 43, Sometimes it feels scary
been here once before. but you and I have
the fantasy of us, We always loved
but the reality, as we both know, -is quite different. -[car honking]
We could both come up with 100 reasons why we didn't make it.
But in the end...
and I was mostly alone. you were never there I always felt that
and keep making same mistakes. No, can't go back
Must keep moving forward and make new ones.
into frenzied keep-fit regime. And will launch myself
to reduce thigh circumference Am allowing four weeks
in order to squeeze lardy arse into teenage skinny jeans.
for women of a certain age. Obviously not meant
[Bridget] All this bloody cycling is pointless. I'm putting on weight.
of the other options, Let's rule out some shall we?
You're not pregnant, are you?
Of course not.
A lady is always prepared.
these in my handbag. And I always carry
You didn't use those? [Shazzer] Oh, God!
The vegan condoms?
"Biodegradable and dolphin-friendly."
I'm helping the environment. If I'm going to be slutty, it's nice to think
[Shazzer] Christ.
when you bought those! Bridget, I remember
That was decades ago!
don't mean anything. Sell-by dates
Do they?
[Miranda] They were a gift.
Don't ask.
Tumbling rapids,
frothing waterfalls,
[imitates urination] a babbling brook!
Oh, come the fuck on, Bridget.
How long do you think it takes?
a positive result. I think that's
I'll just make sure.
You'll hurt the baby! Oh, don't shake it.
in the stick, Bridget. The baby's not
you're meant to jump for joy. I think this is when
Oh, my God.
You're pregnant. Oh, my God.
I'm pregnant?
You're pregnant.
I'm pregnant.
to have a baby. You're going
I'm going to have a baby. [chuckling]
I'm going to have a baby.
[Alice] Yeah.
If you've got footage of her punching a horse, I want it.
do you want a baby? Bridget,
I don't know. [chuckles]
I mean, I'm 43.
chance I'm going to get. It might be the only
out-of-date condom Look, one broken, believed was an accident. I might have
But two?
You wanted it.
Maybe I did.
Ooh. Can we get a medic, please?
[Bridget] Oh, my God! I'm pregnant!
This is it!
More to the point, whose is it?
This is not how I thought this moment would be.
with the man of my dreams. Always imagined myself in OK! magazine
Too many dilemmas to ponder. Oh, Christ.
I shagged in a tent? Not least of all, who was that man
And so, your age will be 43? [Dr. Rawlings]
Huh. So, which of the times with my wonderful man
we got pregnant on? do you think
Does it matter?
It's such a special moment. Well, yes.
so we can treasure it. We'd like to know which one it is,
treasure both of them? Can't you
Oh. Yes. We will.
I mean, we do,
I mean, we do, is more likely than the other? but surely one of those dates
Well, actually, day 10, which was his birthday, is a little early.
Well, actually, day 10, which was his birthday, is a little early. And day 16, which was the...
Anniversary dinner.
I recall, is a little late. Yes. The osso buco,
another treasurable occasion Are you sure there wasn't in between?
Yes, I'm quite sure. He was away.
So, which of the two would you go for?
They're both equally likely. Couldn't say.
because as you know, It could've been after the events
after ejaculation. for several days sperm can live
have a guess for me? -Couldn't you just -No.
What about the first scan?
when conception took place? Would that show
No. Ring this number to fix a date.
And do bring along the father if you can work out which one he is.
Right.
Right.
Just out of interest...
Mmm? an element of confusion If someone did have about the father...
Well, you can get a DNA sample at the amniocentesis.
And I do recommend the amniocentesis, that you have
with a geriatric mother. because there are always more risks
"Geriatric"?
-That's outrageous. -Mmm.
Indeed.
sign on for your Unless you can child support and pension at the same time. [chuckles]
That's hilarious.
'cause it should feel new. It's called "news"
it would be called "olds." Otherwise,
Sorry.
Last night, top stories.
Earthquake in Asia.
Seen it before.
Car crash on the M5, blah, blah, blah.
We are making olds.
We need to flip the switch, mix it up.
the shit out of the news. I want to NutriBullet
Susan the Floor Manager's She's on the warpath. gone.
She's six months pregnant. [whispers]
[Alice] We've got to grab the attention!
Get the eyes on the screen!
I want to see headlines like giving you cancer?" "Is your sofa bed
giving you Alzheimer's?" "Is your freezer
Oh, my God. Are they?
whatsoever, but you're Literally no evidence missing the point.
You're intrigued, aren't you?
I want to re-launch Hard News with a clear new objective.
a presentation in 12 weeks at the London Media Show, We have
for someone dynamic, innovative, focused, and I am looking
for someone dynamic, innovative, focused, and I am looking to lead the charge. Any volunteers?
[Bridget] Whatever happens now, must hold on to job.
that I may be single mother, Must prove to fascist boss
the ironic-bearded hipsters. but am willing to roll with
Anybody at all?
Do you need the loo, Bridget?
No. I want to volunteer.
Let's do this.
[Miranda] It's me, it's me. Turn on your TV now.
[Miranda] It's me, it's me. Turn on your TV now. Look at your TV. Now! Now! Now!
Turn on Channel 4.
He's the dating website guru! Bridget, I found him!
trust the science. See, you have to
Algorithms don't lie.
a fucking billionaire! You only slept with
[Tom] So, tell us, Bridget,
initially attracted you what was it that to the billionaire, Jack Quant?
Was it his face or his body? I'd do him, obviously. Yeah. Well,
Big dick?
Big dick? [Tom] If I were you, I wouldn't tell either of them.
All you need's a DNA sample from one of them.
And then you can eliminate the other one from your enquiries.
What would I say to Mark?
I just left you asleep, "Hello, Mark. I know
you've got any blood, but I don't suppose sperm, or old fingernails lying around?"
get in touch with Jack? But how would you even
Yeah.
Can't just ring him up. He is a bloody mogul.
Oh! [Bridget] May have just worked out how to win favor with new boss
and eliminate one father from my enquiries.
I have to say, Bridget.
about this next guest. I'm actually excited
Relevant, relatable,
extremely fuckable. Good work.
Welcome to CSI Hard News. [Bridget]
on the VT now. Out on Simon. [woman] One minute left
[director] Bring in next five, stand by. Thank you.
Thank you, my love. just fuck off, If you could that would be great.
She'll get you ready. Jack, this is Cathy.
-[Jack] Hi, Cathy. -[Cathy] Jack.
-I was just thinking -Nice to meet you.
magenta eye-shadow. like a simple
Make your eyes pop, of rouge, maybe? and little bit
Kidding. [laughs]
You're funny.
Yeah, but you do happen to have gray hair there. a little stray
-There we are. -Jesus.
That's it.
Actually, there's a whole gray patch up there. Shall I just...
Let's just get in there. Yeah. Let me see.
full of gray hair. Yeah, my hair is
I've sorted it. That's it.
Okay.
-Jesus Christ. -Okay.
Yeah, that's lovely. Oh. All gone.
on this silver fox These fingernails could do with a bit of a trim, couldn't they?
much manual labor, have they? haven't experienced These hands
No. I'm a mathematician.
They're silky soft.
Tell me, Jack.
like Chinese food? Do you happen to
-Jack. Let me take you to set. -[gasps]
Great. Thank you.
I do, sometimes. Yes. Thank you.
she put any makeup on me. [Jack] I don't think
[Richard] It's fine. You look radiant.
And remember the gear shift. Okay. Coming out of VT in five, four...
And Miranda, cue.
I'm joined by Jack Quant. But now, though,
mother in Baltimore, Raised by a single
he created the matchmaking website, Qwantify,
found an algorithm for love. and he claims to have
his number one best-seller to tell us all about And he's here today
Qwantum Leap.
to have you on our sofa today. It is absolutely wonderful
It's great to be here. Thank you.
about your new book soon. Now, we'll talk all
-Obviously. -Yes.
let's talk about romance. But first,
true love for millions. -Qwantify has found -Mmm.
-[director] Coming to two. -Has it worked for you?
Now if I answer that, talk about the book? can we go back and
-[both chuckle] -Maybe.
not to shag him on air. Can you please try
flirt with him more. This is dynamite. Tell her to
on Farrah Fawcett. their first crush Some people had
was an algorithm. My first crush
talking about algorithms, And we've lost them! If he carries on
of cats who look like Hitler. I'm cutting to the VT
[director] Back to four. Love it. Thank you.
He's avoiding the question! Get him off maths.
he's with someone now. Ask him if
good at matchmaking, For someone so
someone in your life? is there a special
Apart from Lady Mary on Downton Abbey?
and talk about the book? Now, can we go ahead
Cue Hitler cats! Don't be evasive.
Oh, don't be evasive.
you have everything. Uh, it's apparent to have no family... Why have you chosen
have no family and... Why the decision to
No children?
And no children?
Zoom in on four. Brilliant.
-Go on four. -Love it.
[Jack] Look, I love kids.
the idea of being a father But I've always found myself kind of petrifying.
Which is why I've been drawn to algorithms.
Cue Hitler cats!
reliable, predictable. They're rational,
Everything a kid isn't.
So, can you have children?
And can you have children, though? I mean...
Are the soldiers working?
Are the soldiers working?
[mouthing] What?
Well, I believe so.
The barracks are in pretty regular use.
-Really? -Really?
Yes.
Yes. algorithm for love... Because for someone with a supposed
you've never found it? Isn't it odd that
order to find something, Well, I think in actively looking for it. you have to be
I've just been too busy, so I haven't.
the Quant family bloodline? What about
the Quant family bloodline? And what about
skeletons in the closet? Are there any
Sexual deviants?
Sexual deviants?
I'm sorry. I don't know where we're going with all of this,
the wrong type of women. but I have to tell you, I can attract
Thanks for sharing that That's really great. with us.
[gasp] Fuck.
Fuck, fuck, fuck.
Bridget, what are you doing?
Bridget, what are you doing? You wouldn't believe some of the weirdos that cross my path.
[Miranda] Really?
-[Richard] Get up! -Fuck, fuck.
[Alice] Can you tell me what she's doing?
Ask him something about algorithms.
the last question. Has to be. [director] This has to be
[Miranda] Lastly, algorithms.
attracted you to them? -What first -Yes.
-The logic, and... -Wonderful.
coming on my sofa. thank you for Jack Quant,
I hope you've had as much fun as I have.
Jesus.
That's it from me. Goodbye.
That was great.
outside of being on the show. You look really familiar,
Are you on Tinder?
What?
-Then we won't have met. -No. Okay.
How about seeing you here. Well, hey!
Hi. [nervous chuckle] Great to see you.
Great to see you, too.
and find you to say hello, I was going to come
but you know how live TV can be so chaotic!
of getting in touch with me there are easier ways Well, you know
and asking me about my sperm. me on national TV than inviting
No. That's not what... No. [stammers]
I would have liked to have heard from you.
that morning and you'd gone. I was disappointed when I came back
You were?
We had an amazing night.
And I thought you were great.
until I became a clip At least I did
chat show moments of all time. of the 50 most embarrassing
Really sorry about that. Yes, that...
how to, uh, explain. I don't know
I'm pregnant.
Wow. Okay.
you being mentally unbalanced. That's so much better than
I'm about 12 weeks.
Oh. Right. Wow.
it's the music festival. So, you mean
Yes.
it's quite a surprise! [chuckles] I know,
Yes.
I'm fine. that I don't... I'm not... And you should know
that I don't... I'm not... And you should know
I'm not looking for anything from you.
a complete DNA check Well, except for my medical records. and review of
Well, the thing is that I didn't mean for you to find out about this yet.
a bit foolish right now. And I'm feeling,
Mortified, actually. Yes. I'm mortified.
And, I'd like to just retreat gracefully.
[female fan] Mr. Quant, will you sign my book?
Please.
[Bridget] Oh, God.
he may not be the only daddy. I didn't even tell him
I love this book.
I need to talk to you! Hey, Katie Couric!
[Bridget] What if this DNA turns out to be Jack's? the father to be Jack? Do I want
I don't even know Jack.
it's Mark Darcy's? And what if
I'll have to confess to him Christ. with dolphin condoms. I've been a whore
Good.
So, the baby's okay?
Perfect.
See?
Oh, my God. Is that it? [gasps]
And it's all right?
Sound as a bell. Cooking nicely.
Have a listen.
I've recorded that for you. There you are.
that for a moment. You can watch
So glad you've decided on the amniocentesis.
Hello, you.
Is that your ear or your foot?
You have got very big feet.
Oh, and look at you, waving already.
Hi.
You're the best thing I've ever seen.
I promise I'll try my best.
So, you just stay safe and snug in there
sort the mess out here. while I try and
And hopefully...
What the fuck is that?
It's the amniocentesis needle.
test it for any abnormalities, take a little amniotic fluid, We just pop it in,
and also the DNA sample that you require.
Now, there is the slightest risk of miscarriage.
very still indeed because So, you'll have to stay
come into contact... we don't want the needle to
What? No, no.
I'm not taking that chance. And it's enormous.
through the other side. It'd go straight
Come on, I'm taking you home.
be over the moon. Your mother will
Will you promise not to tell her? Just not yet.
Of course. No, no. I promise. No, no.
Really sorry, Dad.
about the father. Not to know
Don't be daft.
who could have been anybody's. I know dozens of people
So, you're not disappointed?
I belong on Jerry Springer? You don't think
Not a bit. I'm thrilled.
I'm not sure if you're mine, Actually,
who ran the bowls club. Lieutenant Colonel's or that nice
Hmm. You've got my feet. Only joking.
very dainty feet. I've always had
Just tell the truth, Bridget.
Can't go too far wrong telling the truth.
I have some exciting news." [Bridget] "Mark,
"Mark, I have the funniest story to tell you."
"Mark, I'm up the duff."
[Mark] My Lords, my Ladies.
There is only one fraud committed here today and it is this.
To use the laws of one country to destroy the freedom of speech of another.
expedient to take away A cynical political the right of these brave young women
about the country they love. to speak the truth
like their music. Now you may not
I cannot blame you. And for that,
the fundamentals of melody, They may not have mastered
tenets of musicianship. or even the most basic
the land of Shakespeare, Orwell, Lawrence. But this is
[Bridget] Oh. I'd forgotten in that wig and gown. just how hot he is
...to any country,
any despot, that here, in the United Kingdom, any ruler,
women such as these defend and protect we will always
risked their liberty who have selflessly and courageously
and quite possibly their lives
to tell the truth.
The court will now adjourn and judgment will be given in due course.
Power to the Poonani! Poonani! Poonani!
[all] Poonani!
forward to going back Christ. I'm looking old-fashioned genocide. to some good
[man] Silence! Silence!
[Bridget] Right. How to do this?
I wasn't expecting to see you again at the christening. after the events
He's dived right in. [Bridget] Crap.
No. Right. I understand.
Maybe flattery will work. Okay.
You were very impressive in there today.
Thank you.
Although dealing with them over the last month
for the totalitarian dictator a certain amount of sympathy has given me
who wants to silence them.
Will laugh harder next time. [Bridget] Okay. Jokes.
a certain number of times one can listen There's only
to the resolutely un-catchy Menstruation, Castration, Liberation.
Mark.
That's hilariously funny.
Please.
So...
[chuckles] So, Mark.
Yes.
The gardens look lovely.
Autumnal.
Yes.
Is that a conker tree?
Bridget.
I...
Am pregnant.
Right.
Congratulations.
How can I help?
I'm three months pregnant.
You mean the christening?
Right.
Would you excuse me for just a moment?
I think that this is quite possibly piece of information the most wonderful
received in my entire life. I have ever
Okay.
I've got no expectations Of course, should work out. for how things
you should know. I just thought
No, of course.
I mean, how do you feel? Are you happy?
Yes, I am.
But so much has happened in the past 10 years.
I mean, you've been married, A lot has changed.
long-haul holidays. and I've been on a number of
But...
So here goes on Jack. [Bridget]
-No, I know that. -And, I mean...
right now, I can't quite It's just, feel gloomy about it. bring myself to
How can I tell him now? [Bridget groans]
State of emergency, cannot sleep.
going round and round in head. Looping thoughts
as complicated and important that you can do something It's surely weird
as growing a baby or invading Iraq instruction at all. without any
Keep thinking all the alcohol I've drunk over the years
fetal alcohol syndrome. will give the baby
the things I could do. These are
Tell Mark about Jack,
but risk hurting him so badly, I couldn't live with myself.
Not tell Mark about Jack?
to go through with it. But I'd never be able
the other one is the father, Tell both of them
who isn't the father is upset about it... and then if the one
Oh, Christ. Tell no one and make a run for it.
Hello?
[Jack] Hey! It's the father of your child.
Jack?
Yeah. Who else?
Come up.
Okay.
[Bridget] Oh, fuck, fuck, fuck.
[Bridget] Oh, fuck, fuck, fuck. He's probably employed a team of Google Earth detectives to find me.
Okay. Just act naturally.
Hi. Hi.
Come in.
Okay.
You found it. [laughs]
Try it on. See if it fits.
I didn't expect to see you.
I wasn't expecting to come. I'm not used to being rejected.
Twice.
I hope you've got cake in that bag.
a lot of thinking. I've been doing
this whole baby situation threw me initially. Bridget,
an entire relationship into one night We squashed
to starting-the-family phase. and skipped straight
a real second date. We never even had
Just so you know, if we did,
-I would have taken you to Ottolenghi. -Oh.
and pine-nut salsa. You would have had the grilled salmon
-Unbelievable and healthy. -Oh.
have come back here, had incredible sex, And we would
spent the next couple days sending each other filthy texts.
-[cellphone chimes] -[gasps] on a second date. I would not have let you do that
You let me on the first. Why not?
on a naughty weekend And then we'd go to the seaside,
my manliness by winning and I would prove you a cuddly toy.
-At the pier. -Aw.
the giant Scooby-Doo. But I really wanted
Oh, nobody wins those. Coconuts are glued on.
What are those for?
[Jack] To apologize.
We had our first fight.
with that waitress. I was not flirting
She means nothing to me.
And then,
I would have bought
Swedish furniture for us to make.
we can get through anything. If we can get through this,
Anything.
adorable how your neck I'd find it when you get nervous. gets all blotchy
the greatest possible And I know you'd be mother to my child.
[Bridget] Oh, no.
with shiny new American. Cannot fall in love
I'll tell them both tomorrow. Definitely.
Hi.
So, I just wanted to connect the presentation is shaping up. to check how
on top of it. NutriBullet-ing Mmm-hmm. Yeah. Totally the shit out of it.
I'm relying on you, Bridget.
I need you to get this right. Do you understand?
100%. You can count on me. [chuckles]
Great.
You all right?
I'm fine.
Big celebration.
you back together, huh? I so glad to see
Certainly is, Gianni.
Wonderful news, huh?
I was thinking about "Jack."
after my grandfather. If it's a boy,
It's a good strong name. You can rely on a Jack.
Yes. One for the list.
-To Jack. -To Jack!
Oh! So, this is Dad, I presume.
So glad you could be here.
and wonderful moment. This is a unique
Dr. Rawlings,
maybe do me a little favor? I wonder if you could
Mmm. So, this is Dad, I presume.
I'm so glad you could be here. Pleased to meet you.
and wonderful moment. This is a unique
Before we start, to know the sex? would you like
Maybe we should be prepared.
-You know, I'm not sure. -It's a boy.
-A boy! -Oh.
-A boy. -A boy!
-A boy. -A boy!
-[Bridget] Aw. -[Mark] Aw. My boy.
[Bridget] Okay. Right.
[Bridget] Okay. Right. Will start with Jack. I have to tell them. This time,
work presentation. Have invited him to big scary
And will explain all afterwards.
Welcome.
phone is a camera, In a digital age where every cell
we are all broadcasters.
with the London Media Show Hard News is partnering
so that you will be able to use your smartphones
news broadcasting channels! to create your own
the new Hard News app Simply download
directly to our studios and broadcast
where Miranda is waiting for our first ever live simulcast.
live at the London Media Show, And hello, everyone,
-and welcome to the new look of Hard News studio. -[audience laughing]
We are now live!
our viewers are broadcasting. And yes,
Let's now go to the Grampians [Miranda] Right.
a team of Venture Rangers Wollaston is leading where Adam
to the top of Ben Nevis.
Hello, Adam Wollaston!
Hard News sucks balls! [men in unison]
Jesus!
Jesus! Oh, dear. Well, let's put that news story firmly behind us.
Technical glitch. [chuckles]
to email or text the show. it's never been easier Of course,
Just search "Hard News,"
or simply, "H."
Because...
Because...
What's he doing here? Holy fuck!
Because at Hard News, we believe...
We believe that we are ready and on the frontline,
the world wants answers to. asking the questions
[mouthing] Turn around.
Thank you.
Career down the toilet. [Bridget] Okay.
What could possibly go wrong? Both men in the same room.
I hope you don't mind and surprising you. my just showing up
No.
Anyway, well done. It was very...
Yes.
-[Bridget gasps mentally] -[Jack] Hey.
...technically adroit.
Mark, I would love for you to meet...
Ari Yaratra Sitharamthanthan.
the Area Manager for DTC Technological Solutions. Ariyaranta is
Aren't you, Ari Sinatra?
-Hello. -Hi.
Hey.
What the hell was that?
What were you thinking?
What were you thinking? I've got four voice mails from David Cartwright on my phone
-that I dare not listen to. -I'll be right back.
a presentation? You call that
the right people around me, I don't know if I've got
because you're not...
I'm so sorry, but... Alice,
[Alice] Sorry doesn't cut it. Excuse me.
I'm talking to you. Look at me when
Excuse me?
but I really... I'm so sorry,
What?
He's rather extraordinary. you to meet Jack Quant. Bridget, I'd like
I was just reading in The New Yorker. a profile of him
We actually know each other. Right. Yes.
Yes. We certainly do.
Why didn't you introduce me to this man before? Good job.
represents the punk-rock band He's brilliant. You know, he that's being extradited.
That's right.
Yes, yes. I knew that, too.
fleetingly before as well. Hi. We met
for most of Daventry. I'm in charge of data management
I must say it's fantastic getting on so well, that you're
because you have a lot in common.
Shall we get out of here and find a place a bit quieter?
Why not? I booked Gianni's. Uh, yes.
-That sounds lovely. -Great.
Oh. You might have to sit this one out, Ari...
I'm sorry.
actually believe that [Mark] So, do you mathematics can...
How did you put it in your book?
"Help us analyze behavior previously invisible to science"?
algorithm is to help people Well, my dating not necessarily replace it. find love,
Oh, no. Is incredible idea.
Have you ever tried it out?
You're single, right?
[Mark] Well, I'm...
Yes, I suppose so.
And how did you two meet?
Yeah.
[Bridget] It's...
It's sort of a funny story. Sort of.
on the fourth of the month, You see, a few months ago,
a music festival. I met Jack at
Right.
And we got on very well.
had, relations. And sort of
on the 11th of the month And the next week, that is to say,
at Jude's baby christening to be exact,
uh, following the consumption of quite a lot of alcohol,
we had similar relations? Mark and I, well,
the funny part, I suppose. And this is
Owing to these relations,
currently residing in my tummy uh, the resulting life form
in fact, be either of yours. could actually,
[Bridget] I know I should have told you both before.
I just didn't.
You both seemed so happy.
So, correct me if I'm wrong,
but did you just say that the baby could be either of ours?
So, you have no idea actually the father? which of us is
it's all very confusing. I know,
I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
So, however we choose, uh, to do this... this...
the most important thing now is this.
Is this.
Okay, Bridget, I'm not gonna pretend this isn't a shock.
whatever the circumstance, But I want you to know, you're right.
The most important thing is the baby.
Who knows, this could be a great adventure.
I'm afraid you're going to have to excuse me. I have a meeting.
I'm sorry.
Mark, um...
Gianni, can we have the bill, please?
[Bridget] And if I thought that was tricky,
the news go down at Mum's how would election campaign? parish council
we started half an hour ago. Where have you been? Honestly,
You said it was an emergency?
The Gazette wants to take a family portrait. Well, What are you wearing?
Bridget, are you... Oh, my God.
Yep. [nervous chuckle]
-Yeah. -Oh!
Why didn't you say anything?
Well, didn't want to upset you.
Well, why would you?
Oh, no, Bridget.
Who's the father?
It's not Mark, is it? Oh, do say it is.
at least a 50% chance. Well, there's
"A 50% chance"?
nice American called Jack. Mark or this really
No, Bridget. An American? Did you have a three-way?
[photographer] Mrs. Jones.
pretend everything's fine. Here, take this and
Everything is fine.
Mrs. Jones. Can we... [photographer]
place for you to stand. Look, here's a lovely
Are you ashamed of me?
It's just the circumstances. No, darling.
high office, you see. I'm running for
So long.
It's not the 1950s.
Look around you.
just adopted at number 32. Two lesbians have
the way you look at things, If you don't change
your precious election, you're going to lose
and perhaps your daughter.
Bridget, so lovely to see you. Are you...
Yes. I am. [chuckles]
We thought you'd just got all fat again. How wonderful.
the Mary Magdalene of Middle England. [Bridget] I'm now
Mum and Mark Darcy. Have alienated
Am like tropical female insect
that shags men to impregnate self, then eats them.
The question is,
The question is, will Mark even turn up polyamorous family? and engage in our
Hey!
Hello!
First prenatal class.
Exciting, huh?
Yeah!
You look great.
-Hello. -Hello!
Oh, I'm so glad you came.
Yeah, me, too.
-Brought you an iced tea. -Oh, well!
Thank you.
to see you, man. It's awesome
But there's a heck of a lot of caffeine in that tea.
a super juice. I brought you
Oh! Thank you!
Um... Shall we go in?
Let me carry that for you. -Why not? -Sure.
Oh. Thank you.
your phone for you? Can I carry
Okay.
Thank you.
we have here, then? And who do
and this is Jack. I'm Bridget
And this is Mark.
Lovely.
same-sex couple today! You're our second
No, actually, we're...
Absolutely!
to make us feel complete. the gift of a baby We just need
You must be the surrogate?
Exactly. Yes.
make their dream come true. Just helping this wonderful couple
See, Mark is very nervous about all this.
It's all new to you, isn't it, lamb chop?
[Bridget] Like all visionaries, we'll encounter bumps along the road.
like to give birth to your placenta? How would you
Quickly!
Are you okay? Are you sure?
[Daisy] And of course, massage can have throughout pregnancy. many benefits
Can we name some of them?
Yes. It relieves stress feel-good hormones. and promotes
And is also to be avoided high-risk pregnancy. in cases of
a geriatric mother. when there is For example,
Someone's been reading up. [Daisy] Right! Excellent.
Would you like to have a go?
No, I think I'll let Jack get on with it. to have it covered. I think he seems
That's very sweet of you. That's why I love you, my little teacup.
[Jack] [through speakers] the right question What if we asked the laws of mathematics and applied
the science of courtship could be quantified? so that
Yippee! It's a match!
make an application May I please appeal in the case of for leave to
Her Majesty's Government and Saddiq Al Bashir.
As Your Lordship is no doubt aware, Mr. Al Bashir lost...
So, everything's all right?
it's this combination. Yes, well,
anchovies, banana juice, and Pringles! Gherkins,
So, essentially--
It's wind.
Right. So, going forward,
not hot spicy barbecue? regular Pringles,
no Pringles at all. Or possibly
-[softly] Ugh. -Try that.
Ah! Is everything all right? Is Bridget okay?
Yes. Perfectly fine.
She in there with...
That's Dr. Pringle.
He's testing her blood. This is interesting.
we're testing out of Oslo. bedside technique This is a new
It's Norwegian...
It's Norwegian... I know about Jack. Thank you, Doctor. It's all right.
Why didn't you tell me? Oh, thank goodness. She's fine.
He's calmed her down completely actually.
I got your messages. I was in court. I'm sorry. -[laughing] -Oh.
Oh. Hi. It's all right. Can't be helped.
You should get it.
It might be work.
Don't worry. I got it covered.
Yes, I can see that!
You need to chill out. Wow. Okay.
We have to do this together.
You know, in Peru, consider paternity the Um Bat Do
between the many tribesmen. a task shared
we Um Bat Don't live in Peru. Well, unfortunately,
I live in Ealing.
just so bad for the baby. Negative energy is
Stop it, both of you!
This isn't a competition.
[Jack] She's right.
this toxic energy out of the room. We should take
I won't be a minute.
What's up?
Come on, buddy.
Why are you so angry?
I'm really not your buddy. You know what?
energy or prenatal wind, about vibes or negative And I don't know
about algorithms. and even less
So, I will confess that are somewhat beyond me. the laws of attraction
comprehension generally. In fact, Bridget defies
or perhaps, owing to But despite,
litany of catastrophes the bewildering I've witnessed over the last 40 years,
know Bridget rather well, I feel I've come to
caring for her very deeply. and I've spent those years
automated reasoning, And that may defy but there's nothing I can do about it.
Nothing you can do about it?
and stay around a little Maybe you should try the world by cell phone. instead of saving
I make her happy, Mark.
algorithm tells you And I suppose your be together, does it? you're destined to
Actually, it does.
The fact that you've been trying and failing for the past 10 years
tells me you are not.
No.
I don't want to fight with you.
We should think about Bridget and the baby.
fate has brought us together. For better or worse,
It wasn't fate, it was condoms.
What do you mean?
dolphin-friendly things Those ridiculous of Bridget's bag. from the bottom
what you're talking about. I'm sorry, I have no idea
When Bridget and I got it on,
I was not dressed for the occasion.
No Mark today?
No.
We must thank one person
when no one else would. who was prepared to fight for us
person with all our heart... And we say to that
Free speech!
-[camera shutters clicking] -[cheering continues]
Bridget. Camera back. [Richard]
[Shazzer] I still can't believe Mark ducked out like that.
it's not really his fault. [Bridget] Well,
I suppose we just have to hope it's Jack's, right?
I mean, let's face it.
He is pretty fucking amazing. Things could be worse.
He's richer than God, and he has a very nice-sized puppet.
He does.
very nicely on paper. And we match up
How do you know?
You just have to have faith.
You just have to ask yourself,
growing old with this guy "Can I see myself
and not Mark Darcy?"
There it is. Uh-oh! There we go.
-Oh, hey! -Oh.
they only see black and white. You know, first few months,
stimulate spatial awareness. This will help
motion sickness. Or early onset
I got him one of these. A bouncy chair.
we're going to put it. Not quite sure where
Yeah.
About that,
it's kind of cramped in here, don't you think?
It's cozy.
I've been thinking... You know,
we moved in together. Might be nice if
we're ready for that? You think
living in hotel rooms and airport lounges. I'm just tired of
We could be a family.
Me, you and him.
What do you say?
What if it's not yours?
What?
turns out to be Mark's? What if the baby
it would certainly change things. Well, I mean,
Is that what you want? For it to be Mark's?
Are you in love with him?
I have been.
In the past.
And me?
I could be one day.
entirely honest with you. Bridget, I haven't been
the baby isn't his, Mark thinks believe it was mine. and I let him
That's why he disappeared.
Why would he think that?
Because I let him. Because I wanted you for myself.
Oh. We could be so good for each other.
97%.
On paper.
doesn't happen on paper. But falling in love
Sometimes you love a person
because of all the reasons they're not like you.
you love a person And sometimes they feel like home. just because
I've got to find Mark.
Hello, Pierce. It's Bridget.
get hold of Mark. I'm trying to
[Pierce] He just got back from a trip, Bridget. on his way home. He's in a taxi
Hi.
eight weeks to go. Approximately
need them, you know. You don't really
and blaming things on. All they're good for is fitting car seats
in the way after that. They really just get
of doing this on your own. You're absolutely capable
I did.
[Bridget] You know what? I can do this on my own.
We can do this on our own.
of being pregnant One of the perks a tragic, lonely spinster, is no longer feel like
miracle growing inside. because of miniature
Hello.
Hello!
party/political rally. Mum's throwing a Christmas
It's like the G8 summit with Scotch eggs.
-Be brave. Go in. -Oh.
-Hello, darling! -Hello.
realize everyone was here. I'll just pop upstairs. Sorry, I didn't
No, nonsense. Nonsense. [chuckles]
the posters re-printed. Una's had all
-[mum] You've inspired me. -[Bridget] Oh.
[Bridget] It's still so long.
You were quite right, as it turns out.
This place is teeming with single mothers, single fathers,
bisexuals, surrogates,
and they're all lovely.
And so normal.
two homosexuals on the team? Do you know, I've even got
No, thank you.
-Everybody. -Who knew?
darling, you know that? I'm so proud of you,
What you're doing is not easy.
make it work, it's you. But if anyone can
the luckiest boy on earth to have you as his mum. That child is
to have the love And he's going with you by his side. of a million fathers
campaigning to do. We've got some Come on.
mother coming through. Make way, make way. Single pregnant
Laura, Josh.
We need to give six minutes to General Lu Tong, okay?
It's a huge scoop.
-Yeah. Alice wants to pull the interview. -What?
She's got a feature on "Is the world really ending on Tuesday?"
Well, it may as well if we lose Lu Tong. Lu Tong stays.
Let's do this. Six minutes.
General Lu Tong. Hi!
Thank you for coming on. chaotic in here today. Sorry it's so
We're on live in two minutes.
probably want to start Miranda will with what's going on in Naypyidaw.
get back on General Lu Tong. Miranda,
Keep pressing.
So, let me ask you General Lu Tong, one more time,
will you take responsibility for the human rights abuses
your own government? perpetrated by
Get those beads of sweat. He's on the rack. Tight on four.
[director] In you go, four, push in.
I can't answer that. I'm sorry.
Can't or won't, Lu Tong?
General Lu Tong? Can't or won't,
I'd suggest "can't" On balance
General Lu Tong in the lobby considering I've just found
currently live on-air and his chauffeur is
answering questions about Far Eastern geopolitics.
Any comment you want to make [Miranda] No?
by your own military? of sexual torture about the use
Ask him about London traffic.
Anything to say about that? London traffic, General Lu Tong?
No comment there.
Unbelievable.
General Lu Tong. That's it from after this short break. We'll see you
Good job!
you leave me no choice. Unfortunately,
illegal to fire somebody for being pregnant. It's actually
for being pregnant. I'm not firing her
gross incompetency. I'm firing her for
[Richard] Bridget is the beating heart of this show.
want to fire her? How could you
interviewing a chauffeur instead of a general? How about for
Using a TV interview
to determine if a guest might be the father of her child
and being responsible for the broadcast of six bare arses?
It's okay.
It's really okay, Richard.
I was going to quit anyway. Probably.
I was a little like you when I started here. Believe it or not,
A little chunkier, much less make-up.
make my mark, too. But I wanted to
part of your rebranding. But I don't want to be
the right haircut anyway, I haven't got
cocktails out of jam jars, and I don't drink my lunch on Instagram. or post photos of
it's become unfashionable And I suppose
to make something worthwhile. to care about wanting
rather be old-fashioned and unemployed But I would
that celebrates the inane. than part of a show
is old enough to understand, Then maybe when my boy
fashionable again. integrity will be
What have I done?
fighting for your principles It's all very well
when there's no food in the fridge.
be to find another job how difficult can it [Bridget] I mean,
when you've just been fired and you're nine months pregnant?
And whatever happens now,
one of those bloody Bugaboos. I'm going to get you
-[keypad beeping] -Birthday?
Brain's gone to mush. [Bridget] Oh, God.
First shag?
No!
Bugger!
I'm really sorry.
I've gone all crap all of a sudden.
Right.
No, no, no.
Oh, fuck.
Bugger, bugger, bugger.
New pre-birth resolutions. [Bridget] Okay.
am going to be the best mother I, Bridget Jones, in the world.
to leave you in a shop I'm going to try not
the washing machine or put you in the newspaper with her cat. like that woman in
I know I made you a promise Look,
I would get things sorted before you got here.
Well, the truth is, I haven't.
can do this together But you and me
don't exist anymore. in shining armor because knights
Or... do they?
Hi.
Bridget.
what are you doing there? Good God,
You're all wet.
Yes.
I locked myself out.
lost my keys, phone, I left my bag,
my mind.
What are you doing here?
I can always find time to save the world. Well, it seems
But you're my world.
I thought you were back with Candida.
well her name is Camilla. You know perfectly
Camilla. [chuckles]
and she was there. I came round your house to find you
She came to collect her bags. Gone back to The Hague.
her to the airport. I've just taken
Thank you.
Bridget,
emotional declarations you know I find difficult.
But the truth is...
Why are my trousers warm?
My waters must have broken!
Oh, Jesus.
So sorry. I'll get a cloth.
But you're not due for another two or three weeks at least.
Oh. That's a contraction.
to the hospital quickly. I think we should get
Absolutely.
Let's take your car.
I came in a taxi.
Oh, for fuck's sake.
supposed to know? Well, how was I
The contractions! No, not you.
No, we'll take your car. We can't!
The car keys are in my bag with everything else.
Oh! Five, six, seven, eight. breathe and count. You just pant and
supposed to do, isn't it? -That's what you're -Nine.
Ten...
You should get that.
It might be work.
No! Don't!
[man] What the fuck?
That's really sweet.
But we've got to call a cab.
Oh, shit.
Right. What do we do?
I'll think of something.
-[Gianni] Move, move, move! -[Mark] Look out!
We goin' ospedale.
We gonna make the baby.
God!
This is really happening! I'm going to be a mother!
old for all this. Maybe I'm too
[Mark] Wait!
Why are you stopping?
number 17. I thank you. onion and pineapple, A margherita with
Who has onion and pineapple, they are crazy, no? huh? Some people,
-Okay! -Yeah.
Okay. [speaks Italian]
Don't you worry, Miss Bridget. We get you there, huh?
There is no traffic this time of night. It's okay, yeah?
Power to the Poonani! Poonani! Poonani! [crowd chanting]
women's rights march! I cannot believe, it's a bloody
[Bridget] Oh, jeez, not now!
It's those women I defended. [Mark] Christ!
It's those infernal Russians. Just hold my hand.
We really need to get there.
-We need to get there. -[honking]
We're getting out! All right!
-No, I don't think that's wise. -Ready?
No, Bridget. Bridget!
Call Jack.
I come behind with the bags, Mr. Mark.
And I call Mr. Jack.
It's all right, Bridget. We'll find a way.
I don't think I can walk.
-All right. I'll carry you. -[whoops]
Good God, Bridget. You're immense!
I can't help it!
I think my lung's collapsed. But this is not about me.
[groaning] My contraction's starting again! the baby in the street. I'm going to have
I'll tell you what.
and we'll walk for 10. We'll rest for 10,
-All right? -Okay.
It's not much further?
-No. -No?
-I think it's about... -I don't think...
...a mile and a half to go.
Are you okay? [groaning]
I don't talk too much. It's probably best if Yes.
Okay. I'm here. Okay.
I can take it from here. I'm here. Okay.
I got this!
-I got this. -Thank you!
-[heavy breathing] -Okay.
Jesus!
Jesus!
Jesus!
-This is a two-man job. -I'm here.
Okay.
-[Jack] Take her. Take her! -[Mark] I got her. Got her.
[Jack] Jesus! Don't drop her!
Do you want to go this way? -Just go in. -Okay.
-No, I'll go this way. -Yes. Go there!
Okay. Go. Go.
All right. Squeeze in.
Are we gonna get in? All right.
-I'm squeezing. -Squeeze in.
And, push!
No, no, it's fine.
-We're out. -Okay.
Nurse!
wheelchair, wheelchair. Carol, Carol,
One, two, three...
Over here, please. Thank you. Yes.
You okay?
Which of you is the father?
-I am. -I am.
Right.
[groans] Oh! Breathe out the pain.
many fathers we'd get. I was wondering how Oh, good!
-Full house. Bingo! -[all chuckling]
how do you want to do this? Epidural? Bridget,
-No, you can do this. -[breath trembling]
A positive mental attitude is stronger than any drug.
Just think away the pain.
No. I want everything. Bollocks to that.
injections, morphine. Gas, air,
remember your yoga. Bridget,
Fuck yoga!
[Dr. Rawlings] Oh, I couldn't agree with you more.
It's supposed to relax one, but I just spend the entire time
in an effort not to fart. clenching my sphincter
Now, can we turn you over? check your cervix. I just need to
Mmm. Mmm. That's it. Turning around You're doing very well. to me. Gently.
Just a little rummage.
Rummaging now. Right. Ready? -Oh! -Oh!
[grunting] Ow! Oh! Yes. Oh, good, good! You're at eight centimeters already. That's excellent!
have any drugs at all. That means you can't
What?
Yes, you're too far gone. Well done!
Oh, another contraction.
much there is to gain I'm not sure how
being at the coalface, if I'm honest. from you two
My ex-husband said it was favorite pub burn down. like watching his
So, your choice.
and fetch Mum a cool flannel. Maybe Dad should go
Okay. It's okay. It's okay. -I know, I know. -[water running]
You can do this.
just think away the pain. Okay,
Motherfucker.
Just think away the pain.
Get out, both of you!
Where are you going?
I've changed my mind. [sobbing]
I've changed my mind.
You can do this.
We can do it together. You can.
Just think what life's thrown at you already.
[straining] You've turned disasters into triumphs
infectious lust for life. joyful, indefatigable, with your sheer,
almost entirely on your own, this entire pregnancy You've managed
despite a lunatic mother,
repressed men,
and cheating boyfriends who don't deserve you.
Just the last few moments.
Just the last few moments, my love, your beautiful baby. and then you'll see
What if it's not yours?
Then I'll love him anyway.
Just as I love you.
the way you always will be. Just the way you were, the way you are,
I think you'd better go and have that seen to.
Thank you.
I'll handle it from here.
"Think the pain away."
an entire human being out of your vagina. You're pushing
I'd like to see them thinking it away.
And with 367 of the votes,
Pamela Margaret Jones. the winner is,
-Pamela! Darling, -[Pamela gasps] it's Bridget.
Not now, Colin. It's about the baby!
Pamela Margaret Jones is... I hereby declare that
I'm so sorry.
You'll have to excuse me.
become a grandmother! We are about to
for this special Well, that's it late-night edition of Hard News.
at 25 seconds to off-air, 25. [woman] Grams going
Bridget's in labor.
[shouts] Bridget's in labor!
Bridget Jones is in labor! Except to say,
-[all cheering and whooping] -[laughing] Yeah! Brilliant!
Run the credits!
-Run the credits! Run it! -Run it!
I'm bloody godmother. I hope
Cue the fucking weather!
an apology. I owe you
I know I haven't behaved very well in all this.
No, it's okay.
[softly] Hello.
our beautiful boy. Say hello to
Go ahead.
Thank you.
Hi.
That's who you are.
Isn't he perfect?
Yes.
Oh, hello.
[giggles] I'm so sorry I'm late, Bridge.
a stupid all-night march. Some lesbians are having
Actually, they're marching in aid of free speech.
-It's rather important. -Oh, my God. Look at him.
-Bridget. -Bridge.
I'm so sorry we weren't here. This unbelievably annoying march...
-Actually, the march -Can I be godfather? is critical to...
-Oh, I'm depending on you. -[both chuckle]
-Well done. Congratulations. -Oh, congratulations. Yeah, well done.
-Thank you very much. -[Tom] Well done.
-To both of you. -To all of you.
[mum] My daughter!
Where is she? [exclaims]
Daddy's parking the car. I'm so sorry we didn't get here on time!
for women's rights. There's some march
I mean, honestly, do we need any more rights?
Mum, meet your new grandson.
Aw, the darling. He looks just...
Not that it matters,
who the daddy is yet? but do we know
Shall we find out?
Time for a little test. Come on, you two.
So exciting, isn't it? [chuckles] The X Factor or something. It's like the final of
want it to be Mark Dial 0-1 if you want it to be Jack! and 0-2 if you [laughs]
Oh, good luck.
You, too.
-Thank you. -Please.
You look beautiful.
Thank you.
Hello, darling! Hello.
Hello.
[Mark] Hello.
[Bridget] Hi.
We're really doing this.
No going back now. [inhales sharply]
[priest] We are gathered here to celebrate the union
and Mark Fitzwilliam Darcy. of Bridget Rose Jones
And by the powers vested in me,
I now pronounce you, finally,
husband and wife.
are you doing with my son? Jack, what on earth
alone with him again. Well, don't leave me what I'm doing. I have no idea
-Is he traumatized? -[all laugh]
Hello, William Jones-Darcy.
Are you ready?
-Some champagne for you? -[gasps] Yes, please.
and so, I, Bridget Jones, am a singleton no more. [Bridget] Dear Diary,
Married? Yes.
[woman] Oh, hi, Zeke. Did you hear anything?
[woman] Oh, hi, Zeke. Did you hear anything? [Zeke] Not yet, no.
-[Zeke] Morning, Sally. -Morning.
[woman] You hungry? Run downstairs and grab a box of cereal.
Hey, it's just me. It's just me. Hi.
Did you come down to get some Fruit Loops?
Okay, okay. Shh!
Here you go.
There you go. Okay, now can you do something for me?
When you go back upstairs,
don't tell anybody that you saw Daddy down here, okay?
All right, it'll be our little secret. Won't that be fun?
To have just a little secret between the two of us?
All right? Okay, so remember. Now, shh!
Thank you, Uncle Zeke.
Sally, were you speaking to someone down in the basement?
No.
Sally has an imaginary friend named Melissa.
Hello? Oh, hi, Reed.
Any word about Andy?
Hang on.
Mornin'.
He's not answering his phone?
Well, you better tell the Feds to meet us there.
Sally Ann, where do you think you're going?
Oh, yeah, you bet. I'll see you in a few.
Sally! Go upstairs.
-But I want-- -Go upstairs now.
Ezekiel! It's the damnedest thing. Someone just stole my car!
-You don't say? -It's an '87 Cavalier.
You should be more surprised.
-[sighs] Surprise is for the ill-prepared. -What?
Want a ride to work?
Hey, baby, it's me. [chuckles]
Hey, I fucking got it. When can you get away?
Okay, Shimmer Lake? I'll wait for you. Okay.
Fuck, Zeke.
Mornin', Harris.
Guess you're ridin' up front, huh? Is that right, Zeke? Good.
Why?
-Morning, Reed. Everything all right? -Yeah, everything's just peachy.
-How's the shoulder? -It hurts.
Ask a stupid question.
Actually, when the bullet hit me, it didn't hurt as much as you'd think.
Well, you're a tougher man than I am.
-Thanks for the ride. -Don't mention it.
You know, I'm up for good-natured ribbing between partners and everything,
but when you do it in front of someone, it makes the other person feel weird.
He didn't know where to sit at first, and it was like-- [sighs]
Think I could've been FBI?
Couldn't do any worse than these assholes.
Yeah. Thanks, man.
Did you see anything at the Burton place last night?
Nothing but phantom naked school boys.
I swear to God I saw a naked kid trotting from one yard to the next.
Right. Other than that, nothin'. Nobody came, nobody left.
Closed the bedroom curtains around ten.
-Regrettably. -Lights went off at eleven.
Why regrettably on the curtains?
-Well, you know... -She's smokin' hot.
She's smokin' fuckin' hot. That's why.
-Hey, where is she from in Mexico? -Why would that matter?
Well, I think we'd probably want to vacation down there.
Seriously, though, I did see a naked kid.
-Jesus. Enough already, will ya? -I just... I saw it.
-You represent the Bureau. -[knocking] [Zeke] Judge Dawkins? Can you open up, please?
Why do we care this Dawkins guy went AWOL?
-Well, the bank was robbed on Tuesday. -[doorbell ringing]  Dawkins owns it.
So they robbed the bank, came back, stole the banker?
Well, maybe Dawkins was involved in the robbery.
Why would a guy who owns a bank need money?
That is an excellent question. Do they teach you that at Quantico?
-Rippin' on you. -Yeah, you think so?
Judge Dawkins! Zeke Sikes! Can you open up, please?
Judge?
Sikes. Martha? This is really not a good--
Yes, I will let you know as soon as--  All right, look forward to it.
-Martha's making meat loaf. -Task at hand, huh?
-I fucking hate meat loaf. -[Reed exhales]
Better get 'em out.
Judge?
[Zeke] How many times do I have to tell you guys?
Ed is the guy we're looking for.
Andy is just a patsy.
We understand that you got strong feelings on the matter.
The son of a bitch looked me in the eyes and shot me.
-That's not feelings. That's fact. -Oh, come on, Zeke.
This is where Kyle and I can use the Bureau's resources
to help you catch these guys before they vanish into thin air.
We're expanding the net to a ten-state radius,
we got APBs out to every government agency,
and we got checkpoints on every major highway
in every direction for 300 miles.
-You done? -Yes, he is.
But that was a lot of stuff.
-What if they're still here? -Why would they still be here?
Ed told his wife he's got one more thing to take care of.
-Dawkins was that thing. -What about Andy?
Andy's with Ed.
We got two sets of footprints coming out of the Dawkins house...
And they were going off in different directions.
All right. So what? So maybe they chopped the money then and there,
and then went their separate ways.
Or maybe they left two trails to confuse us.
I don't even see how it matters.
Well, you'll see that it matters
when we find my brother Andy's dead body, you stupid assholes. Oh!
Your partner's being real pig-headed about this.
My partner?
My partner's the smartest guy in the room,
and if you don't see that, you two are dumber than you look.
His partner's not even in the room. I don't even... I don't...
I don't see how that makes any sense.
-Hey. -I'm not stranding you, am I?
No, no. I'll hitch a ride with Beavis and Butthead back there.
Where you going?
Oh, I thought I'd swing past the Burton place
just to see if Ed thinks twice about leaving Steph behind.
Plus, maybe if I stay there long enough, I can avoid Martha's dinner.
-Can you do me a favor? -Yeah.
Just keep an eye on those two.
They seem like decent guys.
I just...
If Andy turns up, I'd rather hear about it first  before he gets gunned down.
You really think Andy's still here?
He was at the house last night.
Any information I get, you'll be the first to know.
Thanks, partner.
How about this?
There's a woman who looks exactly like Steph Burton,  except she's three feet tall.
Yes or no?
[man on radio] Agents Biltmore, Walker, I think we have your suspects.
This is Biltmore.
Yeah. Yeah, that could...  Wait, say that again?
No. No, no, no, no, no.
The Camaro is black and the suspects are white.
[sighs] No, you should-- you should definitely cut them loose.
Yeah, I agree. That is-- It's quite the coincidence, right?
But, no, you should let them go.
I'm sure of it. Thank you.
-Hey, babe. -Pop the trunk!
Hey, what took you so long?
Zeke. He parked outside the house for hours. I had to wait.
That's my girl. Always thinking.
Hey, I don't know about you, but I'm starvin'.
What do you say we stop--?
[gasps] No, please don't!
This is Ed. Leave a message. See what happens.
Shit.
Stephanie? Steph?
-Where the hell have you been? -Where have I been?
In a car, forever! The cornfield!
I spent the night in a junkyard!
Listen, Dawkins has the money.
Dawkins?
Shit. I should've known.
-Why? -Well, that's not important.
What matters is, I gotta figure out a way to get that money
so we can get the hell out of here.
What's to figure?
What? You think Dawkins is just gonna give you the money?
Yeah, it's just... I'm not much of a gun guy, Steph.
-Become one. -Jesus, Steph!
-And go get that money. -[sighs]
[Martha] Oh, please, Zeke.  You can't start a day on nothing but coffee.
-Aren't you hungry? -Um, not particularly, no.
-You worried about your brother? -That's it.
-Well, isn't there anything you can do? -Martha, I'm trying.
I'm sorry. I'm just worried about him.
I know Andy, and he just couldn't do something like this.
Martha, he's my brother and I love him,
but, ultimately, it's gonna come down to how bad he wants to save himself.
What's that supposed to mean?
Why are you crying, Mommy?
I'm sorry, Martha.
You and Sally deserve better than this. I mean that.
It never should have been this way.
But I don't want to make promises that I can't keep.
Hey, Sally, what do you say you and I take a ride in the cruiser?
Really?
I'm not asking people to be perfect, Sal.
Everybody makes mistakes. God knows I'm no exception.
But everybody thinks that they can do whatever the hell they want
with no repercussions whatsoever.
And what is the point  of being the only clean person in a town that's completely dirty?
When I'm dirty, my mom gives me a bath.
Yeah. Well... that's what I'm doing.
-I'm giving this town a bath. -Bath time!
-I thought you wasn't hungry. -Oh, I'm starving.
Then why didn't you eat Mommy's breakfast?
Because if I ate your mommy's breakfast,
I'd end up a fat fucking bastard like everybody else in this town.
Let's just pretend Uncle Zeke didn't say that, okay?
-Okay. -[footsteps approaching]
Hey, Sally.
Do you mind if we drop her off at school on the way to work?
No, not at all.
Get in the back, you fat fuckin' bastard.
-Excuse me? -[chuckles]
That's real nice. That's real nice.
You're a nice little girl.
You know, I'm a police officer just like you.
I may not be the sheriff, but I'm a deputy sheriff.
[woman on TV] Little detail is known of this latest killing,
but the police have identified the two remaining suspects
in the First Mackey Bank robbery.  Ed Burton and Andrew Sikes.
The owner of the bank, Judge Dawkins, could not be reached for comment.
But it's now clear that Tuesday's dramatic shoot-out at the FMB
But it's now clear that Tuesday's dramatic shoot-out at the FMB is anything but over.
-As for the victim, Chris Morrow-- -[phone ringing] -[mutes TV] -[phone beeps]
Hey! Listen, you've got to come and get this money out of here
and give me that tape.
Then just get lost to wherever the hell you guys are getting lost to.
Don't tell me where. I don't want to know.
What? But, Ed-- Hey, come on!
First, you send me to that motel. Then, you stick me with this damn bag?
Whoa! No, no, no! We had a deal! You-- Hello? Hello?
[Zeke] So, what's the story?
Looks like our bank bandits had a dispute over how to split the proceeds.
Or never planned to split 'em with this Morrow guy.
[Reed] Oh, Chris.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Your partner doesn't seem too comfortable around bodies.
Yeah, well, he knew the guy.
You seem all right.
-Yeah, well, I knew the guy. -Meaning?
Meaning... I'm not too surprised. Chris was a little slow.
Got his brain fried in a meth lab accident a few years back.
Same blow-up that landed Ed Burton in the pen?
That's the one.
Well, that connects them. What about, uh...?
-My brother? -Yeah.
You said he knew these other two well.
Well, like I said, everybody knows everybody well.
Some of us even dated the same girls.
But... there's something else.
Andy was the prosecutor in the case against Ed and Chris.
Wait. Your brother is the fucking prosecutor?
He was.
There was a pretty good scandal after the trial
on account of them getting such a light sentence.
Nobody proved anything,
but there was a rumor going around that Ed paid Andy
to drop the reckless manslaughter charges.
Wait, who got manslaughtered?
The file said he got rung up on meth charges.
When the lab exploded, Ed's son died in the blast.
Jesus.
Anyway, uh, when the election came around,
my brother got less than ten percent of the vote.
-You think he took the money? -No, I, um...
Are you all right there?
Yeah, I, uh...
Stephanie Burton called, said that Ed came and went.
So he just came back here to get his clothes?
-He wanted me to go with him. -And you said no?
-I said no. -You expect us to believe that?
Ed shows up here with $3 million in cash, and you just tell him to get lost?
Have you seen my face? I called you, remember?
Listen, we got a dead body in a county that doesn't get dead bodies
and a cop with a bullet hole in his arm.  This is a big deal.
So if it turns out that you're lying, you will end up doin' time.
How much time?
Long enough for you to come out a different person.
Maybe you lose some of those girlish good looks.
Maybe you come out an old lady. -Hey, maybe you don't come out at all. -[clears throat]
Steph, listen.
-No, you listen. He'll kill me. -Nobody is killing anybody.
Tell that to Chris Morrow.
Let me rephrase that.
The best way for nobody else to get killed is for you to tell us what you know.
He's going to Mexico.
He said he had one more thing to take care of,
but don't ask me what because I don't know.
Ed isn't much into discussing business with me.
-So what do you think? -I don't know.
What do you think that one more thing was?
Could be Andy.
-You don't think they're together? -No, I never thought they were together.
I think Ed was planning -to rip those guys off from moment one. -[phone ringing]
So what do we do now?
Sikes. Hang on a sec.
-Where are you? -Mexico. You should check it out.
Drinks are a bit pricey, but the beaches are amazing.
Gosh, I'd really love to,
but I'm kinda busy right now hunting down my brother.
Don't bother. I told you, I'm in Mexico.
Jesus, Andy. What the hell were you thinking?
What was I thinking? Look at me. My life is in ruins.
I'm doing nothing but quickie divorces and hawking life insurance.
Yeah, maybe you should've thought of that before you took Ed's money.
I told you, man, I didn't take Ed's money.
Really? After all that's happened, you're still gonna lie to me?
I don't know what to say.
I want to you admit that Ed paid you to drop the reckless manslaughter charge.
I want you to admit you traded a little boy's life for a fancy car.
You make it sound so simple. What about Judge Dawkins?
Nobody cares that he signed off on Ed's plea deal.
We're not talking about Judge Dawkins. We're talking about my brother.
We're talking about you.
Okay.
Fine.
Ed bought me off.
Okay? You happy?
Andy, you need to turn yourself in.
Turn myself in? Are you kidding me? With Chris dead?
Now that's fucking felony-murder.
Andy, I can't get you out of this.
You either turn yourself in or you face the consequences.
-Where'd the Feds go? -They went to check on a lead.
The old barn. The Metcamp property.
-Someone found Chris's Caddy. -Really?
I think we should have the Feds camp out here tonight,
keep an eye on Steph,  in case Ed gets any bright ideas.
-You know, two guys he doesn't recognize. -That makes sense.
-Hey, who was that? Martha? -Yeah, sloppy joes tonight.
I love a sloppy joe.
Except, this morning, you told me you were having fried chicken, Zeke.
Who was that? Your brother?
You really want to know?
I just don't want you to get yourself into something you can't get out of.
[scoffs] Reed, how long have we known each other?  -That's not the point. Blood is blood. -Exactly.
So let's just leave it at that. Okay?
All right, let's do it.
So, what is it?
-You having sloppy joes or fried chicken? -Who cares?
[man] It's me. No, baby, listen. Don't hang up. Don't hang up.
I know I said that I'd never call you again
but I just could use a little company right now.
Stop, no, no. Stop. Don't hang up.
I'll pay.
I know you're not a whore.
No, I'm not implying anything.
I just-- I just--
I'm desperate.
A thousand dollars? What, are you insane?
Stop, stop! I know. No, you're fine. You're right.
A thousand dollars is right. Just get over here.
It's very, very good. It's very good.
Well, thank you, Ezekiel. That's awful kind of you to say.
Isn't that nice of him to say, Sally?
What is so funny, little miss giggles?
I swear, sometimes, I don't know what to do with this one.
Are you gonna be my new daddy?
Sally, now listen here.
Your daddy is gonna be home very soon safe and sound, okay?
Now, eat that chicken so you can grow up big and strong like your daddy
and not small and weak like me. Okay.
I tell you, you sure have a way with the little ones.
Why didn't you ever settle down and have one of your own?
Sally Ann Sikes, what in God's name do you think you're doing?
[chuckles] On second thought, consider yourself lucky.
You are so beautiful.
I tell you, this is way better
than anything that degenerate Ed used to cook up.
Ed is such a two-bit hustler.
He used to cook his shit with, like, MSM, Lexapro.
You name it, he used it.
But this stuff...
I mean, for a thousand bucks, I went straight to the magic man.
Can I have a kiss?
-I thought you were still mad at me. -[scoffs]
No, I was never mad at you.
You were young, you needed money. It's an opportunity. You took it.
I was mostly mad at myself for being so weak.
-You okay? -Yeah, I'm fine.
I just gotta take a shit, that's all.
-How romantic. -Oh, sorry, honey.
It's not you. It's the drugs.
Sometimes, these things just flush me right out.
-Andy! What the hell are you doing here? -I want the money.
-[stutters] Why would I have the money? -Don't you play fucking dumb with me!
-I don't have it! -Really?
-You haven't seen Ed recently? -I'm afraid you've been misinformed.
You should be afraid that I'm gonna shoot you in the--
Seriously? Under the fuckin' bed?
You didn't think I was gonna search under the goddamn bed?
-[groaning] -Andy, think about what you're doing.
-Ed will kill you-- -Fuck Ed!
He should be afraid I'm gonna kill him!
You know, I just don't get it. Why are you helping him?
None of your business.
Look, you have your money, right? Why don't you just go?
You've got everything. You've got a career.
In fact, I heard you're running for the goddamn Senate.
What does Ed have on you?
Enough. He's got enough. Please, just go.
No, no, no.
-See you around, Judge. -[sighs]
What the fuck? Someone's in there.
-Is it Ed? I'm gonna fucking kill him. -No, it's not Ed.
Please don't open that door, I'm begging you.
-Get your hands off me! -Andy, I'm on my knees.
Please, let's just talk about it.
Once you open that door, there's no going back.
What the fuck? Oh!
Allison, do you know where my slippers are?
Allison?
Hey, Allison, do you know where my slippers are?
I can't find 'em.
I need my slippers, Ally.
Get the hell out here!
Stop! Get on your knees.
Please, I won't say anything, I swear!
-That's what everybody says. -Jesus, you've done this before?
No. No, I... I just don't believe you.
-I'm just a kid. Who am I gonna tell? -Shut up.
Turn around.
-What's happening? -Shut up! Stop talking!
Our Father, Who art in heaven...
Stop praying!
God!
If you tell one goddamn soul, I will fucking kill you.
I was never here.
Get out!
[Walker] Good night, Steph. Sleep tight.
[Biltmore] Let me ask you something. Do you think my wife's hot?
Yeah. Hot enough.
What do you mean "hot enough"? My wife?
Yeah, she's-- I mean-- I said she's hot. She's hot enough. She's hot. She's--
What do you mean by "hot enough"?
-She's plenty hot. -You qualified it with "enough."
-She's plenty hot enough? -I said she was fuckin' hot!
Fuck you.
Fuckin' hotter than Margaret.
Oh, shit. They forgot my chalupa.
-What the fuck is that? -What?
The naked kid! What naked kid? I was looking for my chalupa.
What naked kid? I was looking for my chalupa. Fuck the fucking chalupa! A bummed-out crackhead just streaked us.
Fuck the fucking chalupa! A bummed-out crackhead just streaked us.
Okey-doke.
I think it's time for someone to cut out the hot sauce.
Andy?
Andy, are you awake?
-Hey, what happened last night? -Shh! Just give me a minute.
-What? -What happened last night?
What do you mean, what fucking happened last night?
-Ed fucked us is what happened. -No, he wouldn't do that.
Listen, Chris, I know that something's wrong with you up in the head,
but please don't say that Ed wouldn't do that when he just fucking did that!
-No way. -Jesus Christ, you're stupid.
-Don't call me stupid, Andy. -Don't be stupid, then.
-What should we do? -Check the radio.
Are you fucking kidding me? You dipshit! The news!
[man] ...have been identified as Edward Burton, Andrew Sikes,  and Chris Morrow.
All three suspects are considered armed and dangerous.
Sheriff Ezekiel Sikes was shot and wounded as he attempted to foil the robbery.
Ed shot Zeke? Holy shit! Hey, where are you going?
-I've gotta call my brother. -Are you nuts?
-I've gotta call my brother. -Are you nuts? -He's the one who ratted us out. -We don't know that for sure.
-He's the one who ratted us out. -We don't know that for sure. Who else could it be?
Oh, gee, Chris, maybe it was the cops who pulled us over for speeding
half a mile from the fucking bank!
-We were making a getaway. -Ugh!
I'll take you. I'll just drive you.
No, no! Listen, cockbrain, you've gotta get your shit together.
Your car is blazing hot. -You gotta stash it somewhere. -Where?
-You gotta stash it somewhere. -Where?
Anywhere. One of the barns around here or something.
Okay, then what?
Okay.
Chris, listen to me. Listen good, okay?
You are gonna stash your car in one of these barns.
Then, you are gonna do nothing. You are gonna say there.
You're gonna stay put. Do you understand me?
Until tonight. You are gonna meet me at ten o'clock at Rudy's scrapyard. Okay? By then, I should know more of what's going on.
Okay? By then, I should know more of what's going on.
Rudy's scrapyard, ten.
-You have a watch? -Sure, yeah.
-Know how to tell time? -It's digital.
Okay, and if you get caught, you don't know anything.
Shouldn't be a problem.
-You're not all gone, are you, Chris? -Not yet, no.
Sorry I'm late. I saw her coming back from the cemetery.
Figured it was better than sitting in front of an empty house. Uh-huh.
-[sighs] Hey, Steph, how you feeling? -How am I feeling?
Like the idiot wife of an ex-con who just shot a cop and split town.
-How are you feeling? -Not great, either.
Has Ed been acting strange at all, lately? You notice anything?
Strange how? Like, did I see him with a bunch of his scumbag friends
sitting around the kitchen table,  going over the blueprints of the local bank,
talking about how they were gonna rob it?
Yeah, uh, yeah, like that.
Be back in a sec.
You know, I'm just asking questions. You don't have to be mean.
-I take it you're Sheriff Sikes? -Zeke.
-How's your shoulder, Zeke? -Eh, it hurts.
Yeah, I'm sure it does. -Kurt Biltmore. This here's Kyle Walker. -Hey.
Kurt, Kyle. Mind if I speak first?
By all means.
Fellas, this here is a local matter.
It's a local crime committed by locals against locals.
Shit, as I'm sure you're aware,
one of the guys involved is my own goddamn brother.
In high school, we all played on the same football team. We all know each other, so...
We all know each other, so... I assure you, if anybody's capable of catching these guys,
catching them before there's any further bloodshed,
it's gonna be my partner and I.
That being said, when it comes time to make arrests,
you guys feel free to take every ounce of credit.
So, if you don't mind taking a bit of a back seat,
we'll be happy to paint you as the heroes. How's that sound?
-May I? -Oh, by all means. Okay.
Zeke, I appreciate your being frank with us,
so I'm gonna go ahead and return the favor.
And go ahead and stop me
if I say something that rubs you the wrong way, okay?
We understand that what happened here last night
is a very serious matter around these parts,
but, as far as the Bureau's concerned, it's not exactly 9/11 part two.
You know? If it wasn't for the fact that the bank is federally insured,
then we would not be down here messing around in your affairs.
So, if you were expecting a couple of, uh... [chuckles] grizzled FBI guys charging in here and giving you the high hat,
grizzled FBI guys charging in here and giving you the high hat, well, you're gonna be happily mistaken.
Kurt and I are like the B team. Well, we're like the B team to the D team.
Yeah, we're the E team.
So your arrangement sounds just perfect to us.
All right. Sounds like we're gonna get along just fine.
Reed Ethington, I'd like you to meet the two gentlemen
our government has sent down here to assist us in our hour of need.
So, let's head over to Morrow's place.
If any of 'em are dumb enough to head home, it'd have to be Chris.
We'll follow you.
What's a nice girl like you doing in a place like this?
It's my brother's car.
Your brother, the bank robber, drives a Porsche?
It's an example of how the local knowledge might come in handy.
-I'll say. -Care to elaborate?
It's complicated. Let's just see what we find in Morrow's place.
Mice, I'm guessing.
Or a raccoon. Maybe a sheep.
Chris?
Chris, it's Zeke Sikes!
Chris?
Chris?
Chris, Zeke Sikes!
If you're in there...
I'm coming in!
Ma'am, I'm gonna need you to get up!
Chris...
-Hello? -Hey, Chris, it's Steph.
-Steph, really? -Where are you?
-[cow mooing] -Oh! Uh, no, I-I can't say.
-Listen, Ed called. He wants to meet up. -He does?
-Andy said he tried to screw us over. -That's not true.
Zeke took a shot at him. Ed had to shoot back.
He made a break for it, same as you guys.
No, no, not the same as us
because he's the one that ended up with all the money.
Right, well, he wants to settle up, split the cash,
Right, well, he wants to settle up, split the cash, and then we all go our separate ways.
Well...
I can't go nowhere until after I meet up with Andy at ten.
No, Chris, just you.
Ed doesn't trust that Andy won't do something stupid.
But he can trust you, right?
Of course, he can trust me.
Good. You have a pen?
-Where's Daddy? -Oh, Daddy had to work late, sugarplum.
I mean, you know, this is all just a big mistake.
Andy would never get involved in anything like this.
Martha, I saw him there with my own two eyes.
Well, your eyes deceived you, plain and simple.
-Oh, yeah? Then where the hell is Daddy? -He's working late, goddamn it!
I'm sorry. I know you're upset, too.
-Hey, how's your shoulder? -What happened to your shoulder?
-I fell and bumped into a tree. -That was pretty silly.
Yeah, well... I'm a pretty silly guy.
See ya!
Gracias, amigos.
-Adiós. -Peace.
Adiós.
-Chris! -Steph?
-Over here. -Is that you?
Hurry up!
Hey, I made it!
Is that... Is that what I think it is?
Shit.
-Chris, have you changed your clothes? -Since when?
-Since you robbed the bank? -Oh, no.
Here. Put on something of Ed's.
Where is Ed anyway?
He went to get a passport. We're going to Mexico.
-[shower running] -Oh, well, that's smart.
Ed's a smart guy.
Listen, do you mind if I hop in the shower?
You want to take a shower?
Yeah. Okay.
I always figured you sorta hated me on account of what happened to Ed Jr.
That was an accident.
Put your gun down, Chris. Relax.
Who the hell are you?
You know who I am, son. I'm Judge Dawkins.
What the hell are you doing here?
Well, Ed and Steph asked me to-- Chris, don't trust him.
Steph, what the hell's going on?
Chris, if he takes the money, we'll never see a penny of it.
I don't want the money. Steph, what the hell are you doing?
Chris, he's lying.
Hey, give me my gun back. Give me back my gun!
All right. Hold on, Chris. -We're gonna slow this down. -Chris, don't trust him.
-We're gonna slow this down. -Chris, don't trust him.
Just give me the tape and leave me out of this!
No! Give me back my gun back!
-We're gonna slow it down. -Chris, he's lying. Don't do anything stupid.
-Did you just call me stupid? -Don't-- Don't come further.
'Cause I ain't stupid, okay?
-All right, hold on. -You people are always calling me names!
-Don't come any further. -But you don't know me!
-I was smart once! -I have a gun in my hand! Stop! I have--
Jesus, Judge.
I didn't... I didn't... What have I... What have I done?
You killed him.
You provoked him! Why did you provoke him?
Just making sure.
-You manipulative little sh-- -Focus, Judge.
You just emptied a machine gun. There's gonna be cops all over this place.
-Ed. Where the fuck is Ed? -Ed's keeping a low profile.
There's way too much heat on him to risk being seen.
All right, where's my tape?
We'll give it to you when we come pick up the bag.
No! I don't want the bag! I want the tape!
We need you to hold on to the money for a couple days until things cool off a bit.
We need you to hold on to the money for a couple days until things cool off a bit. No, no, no. Just give me the tape.
No, no, no. Just give me the tape. I'm gonna get out of here. I don't wanna have anything to do with this.
I'm gonna get out of here. I don't wanna have anything to do with this.
It's just a day or two, and then this will all be over.
No! This has gone too far.
Just make sure your wife and kids aren't around for a few days.
'Cause we want to keep this thing nice and simple, right?
See you soon, Judge.
"Rudy's scrapyard at ten."
[imitating Chris] "I got it. Okay. I'll see you there."  Fucking asshole!
Shh.
-What the heck are you doing? -Huh? Oh, nothing. Uh, go back to sleep, honey.
-You're obviously doing something. -It's a... It's a surprise.
That'll be the day.
-Are you all right, dear? You're shaking. -Oh, I'm fine.
You're not fine. You're shaking.
Hey, listen, what do you say the four of us go up to the cabin this weekend?
what do you say the four of us go up to the cabin this weekend?  We can spend the weekend up there.
You can take the kids up there tomorrow, and then get a head start on the clean-up.
I see.
You want to get rid of us  so you can host one of your big poker games.
Uh, well, I guess you know me too well.
Bradley, what's wrong?
-What's happened? -I don't know. I don't know.
Forget it.
I love you, that's all. And, uh...
I wish...
I could be a better husband to you.
It's just a poker game, dear. You don't have to feel so guilty.
Sometimes, boys just need to be with other boys.
-[Steph] You all right? -I'm fine.
-Big day today, huh? -I suppose it is, yeah.
I thought you'd be more excited.
I don't know. When I was in prison, I told myself that I'd be done with this life,
get on the straight and narrow.
Robbing banks isn't exactly straight and narrow.
Then why are you doing it?
-That's a stupid fucking question. -Why are you doing it?
-For you. -Bullshit. You're doing it for you.
What are my options here, Steph, huh?
Okay, we got no money. We got no fucking opportunities.
What are we supposed to do, huh? You tell me, Steph.
-What are we supposed to do? -Nothing, I guess. I...
I suppose this is just who you are.
What the hell do you want from me, huh?
For starters, you could accept responsibility for my son's death.
You are never gonna get over it, are you?
Get over it? It's not a cold, Ed.
-You don't think that I hurt, too? -For what, eight months?
I see! You wanted me to spend ten years of my life in prison
because of bad fucking luck?
The school called us 'cause he was sick!
He had a stomachache and I'm the one who answered!
-I was at work! -So was I!
At a drug lab! And you killed my son!
You don't scare me, Ed.
You only kill people by accident.
Don't forget, Sally's got her ballet recital tonight. Uh-huh.
I want to get there an hour early so I can get a good seat.
That's great, sweetie.
Wait, tonight? No, um...
Sorry, I can't tonight. I got a football reunion.
You're gonna miss your daughter's dance recital
so you can drink beer with a bunch of degenerates.
Is your brother going, too?
We asked him. He's gotta work at the bank.
Oh, well, if he can miss it, then surely you can.
You weren't even on the team when they won.
Okay, hey, sweetie. Hey! You know what?
I'm so sorry I'm gonna miss your thing tonight, but I have an idea.
What about tomorrow you and me, we go to Funland?
She's got school tomorrow.
You don't want to skip school and spend the day with your dad?
-Can Lissa come? -[scoffs] No, Lissa can't come.
-No, it's just you and me. That's the-- -Melissa is her imaginary friend.
Oh! Lissa, yeah, sure. Bring her. Bring your whole imaginary gang along. That's fine.
Maybe we can go on Saturday.
-There's no school-- -Damn it! What is the problem here?
We are going to Funland tomorrow and that's final!
[sighs] Are you happy now?
-As a fucking clam! -Oh...
Sorry, man. Escorting our state champion quarterback
from his meeting with our state champion parole officer.
-Do you mind hoppin' in back? -No, not at all.
-Hey, Ed. -How's it going, Reed?
The back, huh? Never been back here.
-I have. -[engine starts]
My guess is... you don't wash it after the canine unit uses it.
You guys smell that?
No, no, no, it was, uh... -It was Westmoreland. -Oh, yeah. Yes, yeah. Westmoreland.
-It was Westmoreland. -Oh, yeah. Yes, yeah. Westmoreland.
That was the game that Coach Denton called Reed's goal line play on fourth and one,
except we weren't on the goal line.
Yeah, it was an important play.
And I dropped back, and I tossed a pretty little daisy
-right in your waiting mitt. -It was perfect.
You were just so damn excited to finally get your hands on the football,
you forgot we were at midfield. And then, uh... [laughing] And then, that big-ass linebacker, uh...
-Reggie Cutler. -Reggie Cutler.
-Reggie Cutler. -Fuck, that guy was big.
-He just laid you out mid-jiggle. -He was huge.
And then, 30 seconds later, you stare up at me and you're like,
"Uh, did we score?"
And then you said-- you said, "Someone scored." [laughs] Yeah, yeah. That's what you--
Yeah, well, somebody scored, but it sure as shit wasn't us.
Still have that game on tape. My dad shows it on Thanksgiving.
Those were the days, huh?
-[Ed] Hello? -[Dawkin] It's me.
[Ed] Judge Dawkins. Lay it on me, brother.
You've got a lot of nerve blackmailing me twice with the same tape.
Yeah, I don't know. It just kinda felt like a two-chit tape.
You know, now, especially. I hear you're running for the Senate.
Burton, if you ever show up flaunting this tape in my face again,
I swear to God, I'm gonna--
Relax, hombre, you think I'm gonna care,
when I'm drinking piña coladas on some deserted playa,
about you and your 19-year-old fucking butt-buddy?
Oh, Jesus fuck!
Whenever you're ready with those digits, Judge.
It's, uh... six, three times to the left, 28, four times to the right, 86, three times to the left.
28, four times to the right, 86, three times to the left.
Three times to the left. Got it.
You can kickoff whenever you're ready, man.
You want me to take a shift tonight?
Nah, nah. Bank duty is the sheriff's job.
Dawkins will give me hell if it's not me guarding his precious crop money.
Plus, I don't want to ruin your night. You seeing this mysterious Wendy again?
Holy shit! You are.
-Is it getting serious? -No, it's just dinner.
That's how it starts, and then the next thing you know,
little Wendys running all around your house.
I don't know, I don't know.
-602. -602.
-Not 206. -602.
-I got it! -All right.
What? It ain't like one drink never killed nobody.
Chris, we need every brain cell you've got left in your head tonight, okay?
Is... Is he making another stupid joke?
-'Cause I didn't get it! -I'm not fucking around!
-Hey, stop! -Relax! Relax, okay?
Everybody needs to chill the fuck out.
That's what I'm trying to do. This whole thing is freaking me out.
Chris, Chris. Everything's gonna be fine.
-Okay? Isn't that right, Andy? -Five minutes. Easy in, easy out.
You don't even have to leave your car.
Yeah, well, why are we taking my car anyway?
Because everyone knows I drive a bitchin' Camaro
and Andy drives a gay-ass Porsche.
No one has the slightest clue as to what you drive. That's why.
They probably think that you don't even know how to drive.
Of course, I fucking drive! That's why I'm the goddamn driver.
Yeah, and Andy's the lookout, and I'm the one handling the safe.
And if we all just do our jobs, then everything will be perfectly fine.
Look, he's right, Chris. My brother doesn't even lock the door.
I think he figures that the fact that he's inside,
no one is gonna try anything. [chuckles]
Seriously, he must be the stupidest cop in the history of the police force.
-Hey, Ed, can I talk to you a sec? -Yeah.
You know, you really shouldn't talk about your own brother like that.
Shut up. Just shut up.
What's up?
I'm sorry about what happened this morning.
Wow. [chuckles] That's a new one.
Listen, I've... I've been thinking about what you said.
About how you thought you'd left this life behind.
Did you mean that?
Yeah.
Then you should call this whole thing off.
Call this whole thing-- What do you mean? This whole thing was your idea.
Chris, Andy, Dawkins. You said they'd all play ball and they fucking did.
Ed, I'm serious.
It's not too late.
[clears throat] Don't get skittish on me now, all right?  We got this. Trust me.
We got this. Trust me. You're gonna be singing a very different tune in a few hours
when you're a very rich woman.
All right, where were we, boys?
-Evening, fellas. -Oh, Sheriff Sikes, my man!
Listen, I can't tell you how grateful I am that you're going to all this trouble
to help us out once again.
Really, it is no trouble at all.
Great. Well, same procedure as usual.
Uh, the cash will spend the night in here. In the morning, we'll take it out,
divvy it out to the other branches to be paid out to the farmers
when they come to cash their checks.
That'll be going on for a few days. Hold on one second.
-There you go. -Thank you.
Thank you, my man. Thank you.
So, uh, unless there's anything else, I'm just gonna be heading home.
I gotta get home before Allison pitches a fit.
I gotta be there right when dinner is served.
Judge, uh... you wanna...
Oh! Yeah, sorry.
Hey, listen, just as a point of curiosity,
what would happen if someone tried to rob this bank tonight?
You'd shoot 'em, right?
Well, that sort of depends on the situation.
Ideally, I'd like to arrest them without resorting to violence.
Well, shoot first, ask questions later. That's what I always say.
Know what I mean?
Um, not really, no.
Just know that if anything like that were ever to happen,
I'd have your back a hundred percent.
I mean, no matter what the circumstances.
That's awfully kind of you to say, Judge.
Though, hopefully, tonight will just be your typical quiet night at the bank.
Of course. Okay. Well, I hope you brought a crossword puzzle.
Okay. Good-bye.
You move one muscle and I'll blow your fucking brains all over the wall!
Okay, get his gun.
You... You get his gun. You get his... Fuck! You get the gun! Okay. Now, go. Destroy it!
Fuck! You get the gun! Okay. Now, go. Destroy it!
-I can't! -Cuff yourself!
-Too high. -What are you doing?
What are you doing? Smash it! Just smash it! Smash it!
Smash it!
-Smash it! -I am!
Smash it! What are you doing?
Don't fucking move!
Cut the wires! Cut the wires! Just smash it! Smash it!
Uh, yeah! Okay. Okay.
Good! Now, go!
Let me guess. Step two: unlock vault.
Shut the fuck up! Or I'll shoot you in the face!
Hey, what's happening?
What the fuck do you think is happening? We're robbing a bank.
I know, but inside, is it going good?
Yeah, Chris. It's going real good. Super good.
Okay.
Fuck! Come on!
What is this, The Price is Right? How many times you gonna spin that dial?
-Shut up or I'll shoot you-- -In the face. I get it, I get it.
-Do you mind if I finish my dinner? -Will you just shut the fuck up?
Fuck!
What are you doing? What are you doing? Get back!
-Just a second. -Get back! Stay back! Stay back! I'll shoot!
What are you...? Go back! Go back! What are you doing?
What the fuck are you doing? What are you...?
Let me see it. You think I care about the money?
It's all federally insured anyway.
You...? You don't care if I take the money?
-Easy, Ed, your accent's slippin'. -I'm not Ed! I'm Doug!
Schwarzenegger! Arnold's less successful... brother.
Fuck it! All right. Yeah, it's me! I'm gonna be long gone,
anyway, by the time they get you out of that fucking vault.
Huh? So, here. Good luck.
It's 86.
How do you read that as a fucking eight, huh?
Six, 28, 86. It's his... It's his fucking wedding anniversary.
[scoffs] Yeah.
I can see it now with my... with my mask off. Okay.
Yeah! Whoo!
Hey, Andy, you think when this is all over,
things will go back to the way they were before?
I sure as fuck hope not.
No, I mean, like, before everything. Like, Ed Jr.
It'll never be like it was before Ed Jr.
Yeah. I guess people really don't like dead kids, huh?
Yeah, no shit. They fucking love 'em.
We had some pretty good times back in the day.
You and me. But now, 'cause of tonight...
I'll probably never see you again.
I guess that means you're not planning on shootin' me.
Come on, Z, you think I'm actually capable of doing something like that?
Jesus Christ.
I don't know. You killed Ed Jr. pretty good.
[clears throat] Excuse me?
You heard me.
-That was a fucking accident, Zeke. -Hey, shit happens.
Fuck you, Zeke!
You sound like my goddamn wife.
Hey. Here.
Get in the fucking vault! Get in the fucking vault, Zeke!
And if I suffocate in there before morning,
I guess that'll be an accident too, right?
Do you want me to kill you? 'Cause I can fucking do that!
You know what they say...
"Once you take a life, it's always easier the second time."
I could kill you. I am on the edge right now.
I'll fucking do it!
Fuck! Do not fucking push me, Zeke!
Or what?
Or I'll--
Oh, shit!
What the fuck? What the fuck is happening, man?
What's happening?
You're robbing a bank, Ed.
And pretty soon, you're gonna shoot me,
and then race out that door with the money.
But first, you'll kill Chris. Maybe Dawkins.
But probably Chris, then Dawkins. And once they're dead, you'll kill Andy.
What?
And then, once all your loose ends are tied up,
you're gonna disappear with the money, never to be heard from again.
Except... none of that's gonna happen
'cause I'm gonna kill you...  and I'm gonna bury you in a hole out by Shimmer Lake.
What? Why are you doing this? Why are you doing this, Zeke?
What the fuck?
Shit, what's happening? What the fuck is going on?
-Justice, Ed. -Justice... Justice for what?
We couldn't just let you get away with it.
Not you. Not Chris Morrow. Not Andy Sikes.
Not Brad Dawkins.
He wasn't dead two weeks and you were already cutting a deal.
You stole him from us.
You stole my baby.
Oh, come on. Come on.
He was my baby too, okay?
Don't you get it?
He wasn't your baby.
What are you talking about? Stop saying that.
Ed...
Do you remember back when we were all so close?
Steph and I made a mistake.
No.
I stayed with you because I still loved you.
And I hoped seeing that beautiful boy could have straightened us out,
could have-- could have saved us.
Then you killed him.
It was an accident.
It was an accident.
Zeke...
We thought we were doing the right thing.
We thought you'd changed.
He was my son, Ed.
I'm sorry.
Yeah...
I'm sorry, too.
I'm going in.
-The fuck you are! -I'm going in there!
No! No, Chris, you're the driver.
You get back in the driver's seat right now.
For all we know, those could've been warning shots.
-Warning shots? -Yes.
-What the fuck? -No, Chris! No!
-This is really happening, isn't it? -Yes.
-Zeke, this is really happening. -Yes.
Okay. Are you ready?
Here.
Relax. Breathe.
-Does it hurt? -No, I don't feel a thing.
All right, give me the pistol and get the tarp.
Oh, shit! Fuck! Go!
Fuck! Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!
Fuck! Chris, fuck, it's Zeke! Go, go, go, go, go!
-Why? Why? -[stammering] I'm sorry, Andy. -I fucked up. -[vehicle door opens]
Oh, fuck. We're fucked, Andy. -We're fucked. -[vehicle door closes]
License and registration.
-Zeke? -Back here!
Oh, shit!
[man on police radio] 019. Come in.
-Shit! Oh, shit! Fuck! -[officer] This is 019.
We got an alarm signal coming from First Mackey Bank.
-I'm gonna shoot him. -What? No! Get the-- You stupid--
[officer] Chris Morrow...
-It's your lucky day. -Really?
-Ed Burton shot you? -Yeah.
Ed shot me. Then he took off out back with the money,
and two others took off out front in a blue Caddy.
I took some shots at 'em, but I just got too woozy.
I had to come back in and lie down.
Hi, I need an ambulance and, uh, cops. I need-- I need a lot of cops.
It's just something to numb the pain before we take you to the hospital.
-No, no, I can't. I'm allergic. -You have to have something.
Trust me, I'll be fine.
[Reed] He says it was Ed Burton for sure. He couldn't make out any other faces. He did say they sped off in a blue Caddy.
He couldn't make out any other faces. He did say they sped off in a blue Caddy.
What?
Thank you.
-What's going on? -Um...
I was just talking to Pete and Luke,
and not five minutes ago, they pulled over a Caddy for excessive speeding.
And?
It was your brother.
-Man, Zeke. This is a real mess. -Yeah, it's an old mess.
How do you mean?
I mean, this is what happens when wrongs go un-righted. They fester.
You talking about Ed Jr.?
Yeah, you're damn fucking right I'm talking about Ed Jr.
Eight lousy months he got.
Don't worry about it. We'll get him.
I'm not worried about it, Reed.
in Pueblo on Friday and again next Tuesday.
Mike and I will be eating corn dogs. Mike says that's his favorite. Rob, what's yours?
Mike says that's his favorite. Rob, what's yours? [Rob] It's gonna be the funnel cake, I must admit, yes.
[Rob] It's gonna be the funnel cake, I must admit, yes.
[Lena] The funnel cake? Okay, hope to see you guys all there.
[Rob] Lena, thank you. Well, right now, looking a lot like fall outside...
-Looking due west, so we do have... -[knock on door]
And, uh, you know, for the most part, they're not dumping a lot of rain at this point.
They actually have some movement to them, so not very stationary,
staying on point, I should say.
So, as we go through the hour-by-hour here,
maybe around midnight tonight-- we're gonna stop this here.
-Hello, Louis. -Hello, Mrs. Moore.
Addie.
[stammers] Is everything all right?
Can I talk to you about something?
Sure.
-May I come in? -Oh, oh, yeah, sure.
This is the next storm system moving into the Pacific Northwest.
This will come in our direction over the next two days
and really clear everything on out of here.
So the highs today, we only saw the lower 70s today.
Tomorrow, much the same.
We're gonna be embedded in a lot of cloud cover,
maybe a few streaks of sun here and there.
But by Saturday, watch this.
[sighs] So...
[sighs] So... ...by the time we get into Sunday because that system comes right through,
...by the time we get into Sunday because that system comes right through,
-dries us out... -Oh, oh! I'm so sorry.
I want to suggest something to you. It's a... proposal of sorts.
It's a... proposal of sorts.
Not marriage.
It is a kind of marriage-like question, actually, but, um...
I'm getting cold feet. [chuckles]
Would you be interested in coming to my house sometime to sleep with me?
-Did I take your breath away? -[chuckles] Yeah.
See... we're both alone.
You know, we've been on our own for... for years.
And, uh...
I'm lonely, and I'm guessing you might be, too.
Louis, it's not about sex.
I lost interest in that a long time ago.
No, it's, um...
It's about getting through the night, you know?
About...
lying down in bed together and-- and talking through the night
lying down in bed together and-- and talking through the night until we fall asleep, that kind of thing.
Nights are the worst, don't you think?
[stammers] But I think I could sleep again if there was somebody next to me,
you know, someone nice.
-I don't know. -Is it...
-I don't know. -Is it... Would that be something of interest to you?
Can I think about it?
Certainly, of course. [chuckles]
I'll-- I'll call you, okay? I'll give you a call.
I'm sure Diane had your number here somewhere.
-Thank you for your time. -No, thank you.
Oh, here. Stupid door. Here, let me get that.
Thank you.
[man] He's a puzzle. He's a puzzle.
And if he drinks half as much as I hear he does,
then I am glad he lost his job.
-[all murmuring agreement] -About time, I say.
-And his dad... -I remember him.
His dad was just exactly like him.
He used to paint that old kind of jalopy car all those ridiculous colors and just for attention.
all those ridiculous colors and just for attention.
And then he had the guts to drive that piece of crap around town...
-[murmurs of agreement] -...cruising the streets.
[man 2] It was one ugly vehicle.
[man] We can say one thing about those two guys, father and son...
they knew what "cocktail hour" was.
-[man 2] Oh, yeah. -[laughing]
-[Addie] Hello? -Uh, Addie?
Hello?
-Addie? -[Addie] Hi!
This is Louis Waters.
-[Addie] Hello, Louis. -Hi.
So, uh, I've been thinking about what you suggested,
and I think I'd like to try it.
Well, uh, when-- when were you thinking?
Tomorrow night?
[Addie] What time tomorrow?
Nine?
-[Addie] Okay, tomorrow works for me. -Okay.
-[Addie] Um, I'll see you then. -Right.
What are you doing back here?
Well, I wasn't sure if-- You know how it is. People talk.
How about a drink?
Sounds like a good idea.
Red okay?
Do you have any beer?
I'll get some beer for you next time.
What, you don't think there's going to be a next time?
Oh, no, no. It's not that. It's just...
Wait a minute. How long have we known each other?
How long have we been neighbors?
-We don't really know each other. -Well...
How about we get to know each other?
Go ahead, ask me a question. Anything.
Pretty cold for spring, huh?
[laughs] Oh, really? We're gonna talk about the weather?
-[both laugh] -What else is there to talk about?
Literally anything else.
I'm not much of a talker these days.
Well, that's disappointing.
-Would you like a tour of the house? -What--
Yeah.
This is the living room.
-And, uh... -Oh.
Bigger house than I thought, more rooms.
It's been a good house for us. How long have you lived here?
-48 years. -48 years?
-48 years. -48 years? That's a long time.
Would you like to see the upstairs?
Okay.
So this was Connie's room.
And this was Gene's room.
And the bathroom.
And, um...
This is where we always slept.
[sighs] I'm sorry about the "we."
Oh, I know what you mean.
You getting in?
Yeah.
[chuckles] Awfully quiet, Louis.
[chuckles] Yeah, well...
I was just thinking how strange this all seems.
Maybe it wasn't such a good idea?
Maybe... Maybe it could be.
Yeah.
Yeah, maybe it is.
You know what else I was thinking?
Are you still awake?
[man] Storms will continue to march off to the east,
and this model brings in some redevelopment late tonight.
This is 11 o'clock across El Paso County back into Teller County,
across El Paso County back into Teller County, still another round of shower activity possible.
Overnight tonight, light rain possible across parts of the viewing area.
Nothing intense, just a few raindrops on the rooftops,
even for the drive early tomorrow morning.
Light showers certainly possible by 8:30 to nine.
Even a couple of sprinkles in some areas.
We're going to see dry conditions and some sunshine during the midday hours.
That'll help destabilize the atmosphere,
so thunderstorms will develop again tomorrow afternoon...
I wasn't sure if you'd come back.
Why not?
I don't know.
You didn't leave your pajamas here last time.
I didn't... I didn't want to seem presumptuous.
It might be easier if you left a few things here.
Well, then you wouldn't have to carry them.
So... why me?
[chuckles] What, you think I'd just pick anybody?
Well, no, just curious. I just wondered.
I always thought you were someone I could talk to.
And you're a lot better-looking
-than Jerry Henderson. Yeah. -Henderson? [chuckles]
-You know, the truth is... -Hmm?
I always thought you were a good man.
-You did? -Mm-hmm.
So how have you thought of me, if you ever have?
Oh. I've thought of you.
-[laughs] No. -No, not just that.
But a person of substance, of character.
Whatever gave you that impression?
Because the way you lived your life,
the way you managed your life after Carl died.
I knew the way it was with Diane and me,
and it seemed to me you were doing a lot better than I was. And I-- I admired that.
But you never came over or made a point of talking to me.
[laughs] Well... that would've been intrusive.
[laughs] Well... that would've been intrusive. -I mean... -Yeah, intrusive.
-I mean... -Yeah, intrusive.
You know, I think...
that you should come through the front door next time.
-Well, like I said, people talk. -Oh, let them talk.
You know, I've spent my whole life worrying about what people think.
So, uh, what else do you want to know?
Well, I have some questions. Yeah, such as?
Well, where you're from, what you were like as a little girl,
how you met Carl, who your friends are.
-[laughs] -Well, what? I could go on. I could-- You know?
What you believe in, what party you vote for.
-Hello? -[woman] Oh, thank God.
[stammers] Holly?
-[Holly] I was ready to call the police. -[stammers] What's wrong?
[Holly] Nothing's wrong, Dad. I was worried about you.
I called three times last night. You didn't answer.
[Holly] Where were you?
I guess I just didn't hear the phone, Holly.
[Holly] Well, maybe it's time you invest in those hearing aids we talked about.
What?
[Holly] Dad?
Yes? [chuckles] I was kidding, Holly. That's a joke.
So what else is going on? What are you up to?
Uh, not much.
-Well, hello, there. -[chuckles] Oh.
Tell me about the other woman.
Her name was Tamara, still is if she's alive.
-She was a teacher, too, right? -Uh-huh.
Yeah. You know, I saw her once or twice in the parking lot
when I went to pick Gene up from school.
She was tall, exotic.
-Native American, right? -Yeah.
She was married to a salesman, um, and they had a daughter,
She was married to a salesman, um, and they had a daughter, about the same age as Holly.
Well, at that time, Diane and I, we really weren't doing so well.
Why not?
Well, because of me.
And a little bit her, too.
You know, Holly was little,
and neither one of us really, really knew what we were doing,
and we would have these arguments that would turn into fights, and then...
and we would have these arguments that would turn into fights, and then... and then she'd start crying and leave the room
before we could finish what we were fighting about.
And so, at school, one of you made some move, some gesture or...
Yeah, one day I was in the lounge, and she walked in, and...
she walked up to me and just put her hand on my arm, just the tiniest, tiniest gesture.
And I remember it was tax time. It was the middle of April.
And I was doing our taxes, and I went to mail them that night,
and as I went by her house, for no good reason,
she looked up and saw me through the window.
And that's how it started? On Tax Day. Strange, isn't it?
On Tax Day. Strange, isn't it?
Well, these things happen in all kinds of ways.
And then, I left Diane and Holly
and I moved in with Tamara and her daughter,
and her husband moved out.
And then?
Well, we got along for a couple of weeks. I mean...
And... [exhales deeply]
God, she was beautiful. And she had... the most beautiful brown eyes and skin like satin.
And she had... the most beautiful brown eyes and skin like satin.
-And she was-- -How did it end?
-Huh? -How did it end?
I was having supper, me, Tamara and her daughter,
and I suddenly got sick of myself.
I thought, "What am I doing?
I'm trying to play a father to Tamara's daughter,
and my daughter is growing up without me." So...
How'd she take it? She cried.
And... she said, "Is this our last night?"
I remember that night, how-- how it was.
You never talked to her again?
No.
I think you're still in love with her.
-No, I'm not. -Yeah, well, it sounds like it.
Maybe a little bit with the memory of her, but that's-- that's different.
Come on, get in bed.
Yeah.
You know, I think I regret hurting Tamara more than I regret hurting my own wife.
It's like I failed my spirit or something.
Or I missed a special kind of call to be something more.
Oh, don't be so hard on yourself, Louis.
You did the right thing.
You're a good man.
I... I don't know about that.
You were a good teacher to Gene. I remember.
A good one, maybe, but not a great one.
I know that.
...like he's your buddy, and he knows you know something he don't know.
He knows every goddamn thing you know, trust me, bud, we all do.
-[laughing] -Good morning, boys.
-How you doing, Louis? -Oh, good enough.
-All right. -Good morning, sir.
-You look great, Louis. -Oh, thanks.
-You get a good night's sleep? -Yeah, how about you?
-Ah, tossing and turning, you know. -Oh, sorry to hear that.
Yeah, we've heard you've been pretty busy, for sure.
-Oh, yeah? -Yeah. Well, that's the word anyway.
How's the bad back?
Uh, it's still a bit sore, but it's okay, I guess. [man] Uh-huh.
-[giggling] -[chuckles] I bet it is.
How's that?
[chuckles] Well, we gotta compliment you...
on your energy.
-[laughing] -Yes, sir. We all wish we had your energy.
Well, it's been... it's been fun.
-Oh, come on. -Where you going?
Sit down, Louis. We're just getting started.
Finish your coffee. [Louis chuckles] Oh, I think I understand.
-Come on! -Where you going?
-No need to rush off. -Come on, it's just us!
You got a whole day to mope.
Are you all right?
Yeah.
You sure?
[woman] Yeah.
-Oh, let me get it. -No, thanks.
You gonna need to get some groceries after?
It's not like I have anyone else to cook for.
I was gonna tell you, you know.
I see him leave sometimes in the morning.
Guess others do, too.
It's not what you think.
-It's not? -No.
Well, in that case, I'm insulted.
Not even dead yet, and you're already replacing me.
You are irreplaceable. [laughs] You know that.
[laughs] Uh-huh.
What do you think of him?
He seems all right.
Mows my lawn from time to time.
Shovels the walk when it snows.
Well, that's nice. Huh?
But he's no saint.
I could tell you about that. His wife could've told you.
Oh, that won't be necessary.
We all have history.
That we do, that we do.
-So I guess we're not a secret anymore. -[Addie] How's that?
You know Dorlan Becker?
Bald guy, used to own the men's store.
-Why? -Yeah.
Yeah, he's-- he's, um...
He's one of the guys I meet with, uh, down at the coffee shop.
-He's a real piece of work. -[Addie] Uh-huh.
Well, anyway, he wanted to know how come I had so much energy.
[Addie] What?
I said he wanted to know how come I had so much energy.
-[Addie laughs] -What's so funny?
What'd you tell him?
Well, I-- I got mad.
I don't think I handled it very well. In fact, I think I'm still mad.
[Addie] Yeah, I can see.
So, Louis, what's the problem?
Well, I don't want anybody to think anything bad.
-Anything bad? -Yeah.
-Like what? -About you or about us.
Let it go, Louis.
We always knew people would find out.
Who cares?
Are you over it yet?
-I'm getting there. -[Addie chuckles]
So I've been thinking.
I've got this idea.
I'm listening.
Why don't we go into town, have lunch...
just take our time and enjoy ourselves?
-In public? -Yeah.
When do you want to do it?
Sunday. About noon?
Sounds fine to me.
Maybe I'll wear something bright and flashy.
[Addie] Hi.
-Hi, Charlie. -Louis, how are you?
-Hi, Charlie. -Louis, how are you? -Okay. -Sir.
-Okay. -Sir.
Your server will be right with you.
-Thank you. -Thank you. [clears throat]
Doesn't seem too revolutionary so far.
[Addie] It was a very hot summer evening.
And Connie had the hose on with one of those--
Remember those old-fashioned sprinkler heads?
-Yeah, right. -That the kids could jump
-Yeah, right. -That the kids could jump through the spray, you know, and...
Gene was five at the time. Connie was 11.
And he was chasing her around the yard with the hose,
and they were laughing and screaming and...
And I went inside to check on dinner.
I was making tomato soup.
And I heard the screech of car tires
and, uh, a thud and a scream, and I ran outside and...
Uh, the driver was standing next to his car, and he kept saying, "Oh, God. Oh, God." It was...
I don't know who called the ambulance, but it got there pretty quick.
She was still alive.
My little girl.
And we rode to the hospital, and I held her head in my lap.
Two days later, she was buried.
Her body was buried.
And I don't remember anything else about that time.
I don't remember Gene going back to school.
I don't remember Carl going back to work.
But things were never the same between us.
Never. Our relationship, our marriage...
In what way?
Just in every way possible. It was...
I don't know. We stopped talking.
We stopped being intimate.
It's tough for a marriage to survive that.
You know, you wake up one morning, and you have everything.
Then the next morning it's all gone.
That's how fast it can happen, just like that, in an instant, you know?
-You two aren't fighting again... -No, Mom, come on.
She can't keep doing this, Gene. It's not right.
-Mom-- -And it's not good for him.
Mom, it's not what you think it is. We don't have a problem, okay?
Just-- Just take him for a couple of days, that's all I'm asking. Help me out.
Take him? Yeah, until Bev comes back or he goes back to school in September.
Yeah, until Bev comes back or he goes back to school in September.
She's not gonna just go and leave her son, is she?
No, Ma. [exhales sharply]
-No. No. She's not. -[sighs]
Of course I'll take him.
How's your shop?
It was wonderful. I lost it.
You know, nobody's buying unpainted furniture nowadays,
and-- and I can't help it, you know?
Yeah. So what are you gonna do?
I'll, uh-- I'll figure it out.
You need money?
No.
[Gene] I'll see you soon. All right, now, give me a hug.
You're gonna be all right, okay?
All right, now go inside.
She's waiting for you, come on.
Come on, go inside.
Go on. Jamie, go up.
Come on, we're gonna have a good time.
[Louis] I guess that's it for us, then.
Well, it-- it doesn't have to be.
[Louis] You don't think?
I don't know. Let's see how it goes.
[chuckles] Heck, I might need you to help me with him, actually.
Been quite a stretch since I took care of a seven-year-old.
Yeah, you and me both.
[Addie] Jamie, hi.
How are things at home?
Well, we're gonna have a good time, you and me, okay?
Okay, so let's go to bed now.
-Nana? -Yeah?
Can I sleep in your room?
Sure.
Pretty good cupcakes.
[whispering] Try.
Hey, Jamie, how do you like school?
What's that game you're playing on your phone?
-It's called Clash of Clans. -It's called what?
-Clash of Clans. -Clash of Clans.
-How's it work? -You build a city and then, like,
-How's it work? -You build a city and then, like, -watch it grow and stuff. -Huh.
Hey, you want to see something cool?
Hello?
What?
I'll show you.
See, I think...
I...
Yep.
Here it is.
This is the engine that pulls the rest of the train.
And...
Oh, and this is the freight car. It comes right behind it.
And this is the caboose, which comes at the end.
-Where'd you buy them? -Hmm?
Where'd you buy them?
Uh, I got them from a mail order, got them from mail order...
And it was coming-- It was a big box with instructions in it.
And it came all the way from Tennessee.
And then my daughter and I put this thing together,
and, boy, it took weeks to build it.
[Jamie whispers] Wow.
Can I play with them?
[stammers] Yes, as long as it's okay with your grandmother.
If you're careful.
I put bad guys on the train, and they were, like, robbing the train,
and then I had good guys, like, come out and push them off the train.
And then I used paper towels-- I stuffed paper towels on the train to make it look like smoke.
I stuffed paper towels on the train to make it look like smoke.
Oh, that sounds like a fun day.
Oh, can I play with my phone now?
For a half hour.
Not at the table.
Ask to be excused.
-May I please be excused? -Yes. Oh.
Baby steps.
-Well, hello again. -[Jamie] Hi!
Where-- Where's Addie? She said I could come by myself. Are you bringing the train set out today?
She said I could come by myself. Are you bringing the train set out today?
Well, I guess I could-- I could poss--
Okay, then.
[Jamie] Cool.
-Okay? -Got it.
Now, you're gonna hook these up, and then...
-Careful, easy. -Wait.
-Careful, easy. -Wait. -There you go. -Connected.
-There you go. -Connected.
You know, when I was a kid, they'd try to sell you cereal to eat.
-Mm-hmm. -And so what they'd do, they'd put a prize at the bottom of the cereal box,
a little prize, like a ring?
Like a Captain Midnight ring or something like that. [Jamie] Mm-hmm.
And you'd plow through the cereal to get to the prize.
You didn't like the cereal, 'cause it wasn't very good anyway,
but you couldn't wait to get the prize, then you got your ring.
Okay, now, what's next?
Pulling the train along. And go.
Don't you think the train needs to go through a town?
-Well, yeah. -See, here's the town.
-Cool. -Okay.
Wow. Oh, wow, this is a big house.
Well, somebody's got-- Ooh, somebody's very rich.
-Oh, how about a church? -Oh, yeah, you've got to have a church.
Yeah, what's a town without a church?
-[train whistle blowing] -There you go.
Now you're talking.
You know, my mom was five when they first put the streetlights in Holt.
There were many more flowers on Main Street then.
Where'd they go?
Well, 'cause of the moths. The moths would pollinate the flowers, and then because of the lights,
The moths would pollinate the flowers, and then because of the lights, they would go higher up, away from the flowers.
So why don't they make the lights lower, like at my height?
I don't know.
That's an idea.
-[Jamie] Hi, Nana. -Jamie.
Will you wash up for dinner?
-Okay. -Okay.
-Can I have a sleepover? -Yeah, sure.
With Louis, too?
-Sure. -[Jamie giggles]
[Louis] Mm-kay.
Out like a light.
[Addie] You're good with kids.
-[Jamie] Nana! -[Addie sighs]
[Addie] What's the matter, honey?
Okay. Come here.
Don't forget Mister Monkey.
Here you go. Okay, here we go.
What are you doing?
-I don't-- -[whispers] Stay.
Stay. Come on, get in.
[Addie] Okay.
-I'm gonna turn the light off, all right? -Okay.
[Jamie] I'm scared.
[Addie] Oh, honey, there's nothing to be scared of.
Look, I'll hold your hand, okay?
[Jamie] I'm still scared.
We're down a run, but the top of the order is coming up,
and that's where the best hitters are.
You ever seen a game?
You haven't? You ever play?
-Whoo! Go! Whoo! Go! -[horn honking]
She is so good.
-She's good, yeah. -She just always has been.
So...
Does he still come by at night?
We don't do anything, if that's what you're thinking.
-No? -[Addie laughs] No!
The hell you waiting for?
The hell you waiting for?
-I'm just rattling you. -No, it's not what it's about.
[Louis] When I was a kid, there was nothing more important
than wanting to chase something and catch it.
[Addie chuckles] Yes.
[Louis] I was always looking for something to chase.
-[Addie] Here you go. -But, you know...
-[Addie] Here you go. -But, you know... it breaks my heart to see how lonely he is.
You know what he needs? I think he needs some real friends to play with,
instead of us doddering old folks.
-"Doddering"? -Yeah.
-Hey... -Huh? Yeah?
How about a dog?
I'm serious. There's a shelter in Phillips. We could drive up there.
I don't have energy for a puppy.
I'm not talking about a puppy.
I'm talking about a dog, like a real full-fledged dog.
-House-trained and everything. -[chuckles]
You can keep it at my house. [chuckles]
Sounds like you want a dog.
Oh, this one looks nice.
-[man] You want to see her? -Yes, please.
Come on, girl.
So what-- what happened here?
She was left outside during the winter, so the vet had to amputate her toes.
-What are you going to call her? -Bonny.
Where'd you get that name?
A girl in my class.
Okay, Bonny it is.
Can we visit her again after dinner?
Yeah. You can have a short visit to say good night.
[Addie] Okay?
Okay, get the damn dog.
Yeah, you don't want it waking up the whole neighborhood.
-[Jamie giggles] -I said get the darn dog.
Did you have this in mind all along?
[chuckles] I'm not that smart.
So...
Talk to me. Tell me something I don't know about you yet.
Hey, you know that dog's on the bed with him?
I know. Well, it's going to get your bed awfully dirty.
I'll wash it.
Talk to me.
I wanted to be an artist.
I had this crazy idea that I could be a painter someday.
I didn't tell anyone. Diane knew.
And I had it all mapped out. I was gonna save money.
-Mm-hmm. -I was gonna sail to Europe and paint.
I even had a teacher draw up a recommendation
for a student visa for me.
And what happened?
-You mean why didn't I pursue it? -Yeah.
Well, I thought I had a-- I'd get a teaching certificate first,
and then... then I met Diane.
And, uh, then we got married, and when Holly came along,
And, uh, then we got married, and when Holly came along, uh, I was already teaching.
And also spending my summers building houses
because I thought we needed more money.
I remember you fixing houses with other teachers.
Yeah?
Ruth?
[priest] We're here today to remember Mrs. Ruth Joyce.
Among her many attributes was generosity of spirit.
Mrs. Joyce was the treasurer of the Rotary Club...
a 30-year member of the Holt County Fair Committee...
Your left foot. Yeah, there you go.
Then you--  go back like this.
And then when you go to throw, you step forward with that foot.
-There you go. -Like this?
-Yeah, but wait until I get there, okay? -Okay. [giggles]
Let's have it.
Try it again.
You don't understand. You could be looser, you know? You...
-Just step forward and throw. -Okay.
-Just step forward and throw. -Okay. Okay?
There you go.
Ooh! Hey, strike.
[Louis] Here you go.
Jamie, this is for you. This is nice and sharp.
[Jamie] Okay.
-[Louis] Okay? Got it? -[Addie] And here's one to eat.
Hoo-hoo! Wow. Don't eat them all. Save something for me.
Don't eat them all. Save something for me. Louis, you want a marshmallow?
-Huh? -You want a marshmallow?
-Is that yours? -Well, you can have it.
[Jamie] You're gonna love it. Don't you?
I haven't seen your phone all day.
Well, I left it at home because Louis said it probably wouldn't get connection in the mountains.
Okay, let's see how it tastes. Are you ready?
All right, try it.
Mm. Gosh.
It tastes really good.
The marshmallow has actually been cooked.
[Addie] You know, we're in that tent right over here.
If you need us, just call, okay?
[Jamie] I love you, Nana.
[Addie] Good night, sweetheart.
You're awfully quiet, Louis.
Well, I was just thinking.
You know, we used to come here all the time, just the two of us.
-You and Diane? -Uh-huh.
We'd come when she was able.
She fought hard, did-- didn't she?
Yeah, in the beginning, she did.
But in the end, there wasn't much fight left.
I would sit with her during the day, and I would bring her food,
I would sit with her during the day, and I would bring her food, and I would try to get her to eat.
But at the same time, we weren't really talking to each other anymore, and I...
I think she was basically just saying, "I'm... I'm done with it."
You know, we-- we always think we can fix everything, but...
some things we can't fix.
We have to learn to forgive ourselves.
Yeah. Yeah, yeah, but that's not it.
You know, I mean, Holly and I were there when she passed.
I remember...
wanting to feel her leave... her spirit or something.
And instead, it just seems like she's still around.
You can tell me anything. You know that.
[Jamie] Look, I'm gonna put this on you. Yes!
[Louis] Now that we're back home, I'm telling you, you're gonna miss that mountain air.
-Yeah. -Come on, girl.
You know, I think I've decided I really like altitude.
-[Gene] Hey, big guy. -[Louis] Yeah?
-[Jamie] Hi. -Gene.
Oh, so you got him a dog, huh?
Bonny. Louis got her for him. You know Louis Waters.
Yes. Hello, Gene. Hi, Mr. Waters.
I've been trying to call you all day. Where were you?
You know, I should be getting back to my place.
-Would you call me later? -Yeah.
-Okay. -Bye, Jamie.
-Bye. Thank you. -Good to see you again, Gene.
We went camping.
-It was really fun. -It was.
-Oh, really? Yeah, you had fun? -Yeah.
-It was good? -[Addie and Jamie] Roasted marshmallows.
Jamie really liked that.
-Yeah, it was neat. -[engine starts]
Louis Waters, really?
Can we talk about this later?
[Jamie] Uh, can I take Bonny on a walk?
Yeah, yeah, sure you can.
[Gene] I know what he did to his family. I was here, remember?
-That was 40 years ago. -Yeah, well, it still happened.
He destroyed a family.
He's sorry that he did it, okay?
And he can't fix it now, so...
[Gene] Can I ask you something?
I heard he sleeps over.
-[Addie scoffs] -Do you really think that's okay? I don't see how that is any of your business.
Well, it is my business if my kid is involved.
-It is my business. -[Addie sighs]
I don't want him to get hurt.
Oh, you don't think he was already hurt with Bev running off this summer?
Oh, God, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
How's everything with Beverly now? And your work?
Work is fine.
Work is fine.
[stammers] I'm fixing roofs.
Well, you know, I'd like to help you if there's any way I can--
Mom, I'm not asking you for anything. Really, please.
-[Gene sighs] -[Jamie] Hey, Bonny.
Why were you yelling?
I wasn't yelling.
Hey, come here.
What do you say? Let's go home.
-[Jamie] Will Mommy be there? -No. Mom's not gonna be there.
She-- She'll come soon, okay?
Just the two of us. All right? Look at me.
Just the two of us. All right? Look at me. We're gonna have a lot of fun. All right?
[Jamie] I-- I don't want to go home. I want to stay here with Nana.
Honey, it's just your daddy misses you, you know?
Come on.
I want to stay here with you.
And remember her neck. You're gonna have to be gentle.
And you're going to be good. I can tell.
Now, you call me, okay?
I want to know how school is going. I want to know how you are.
-I love you. -I love you, too.
-You too, bud. -[Gene] Sorry, but we really need to go.
All right, you put her in the car, all right?
-Be patient. -Yeah.
-Good-bye, Gene. -Good-bye.
-[car door opens] -Put on your seat belt.
-[car door closes, engine starts] -[Jamie] Bye!
[Addie] Bye!
You know, I feel it, too.
The absence.
But at least he's got the dog with him.
Yeah.
The dog was a good idea.
Hey.
I've got another idea.
You ever been to the Brown Palace?
-In Denver? -Yeah.
Yeah, I've always wanted to stay there.
What do you think? Just the two of us?
Get away for a few days, get our minds off of things?
God, I haven't been in the city for ages.
-[man] Hi. -[Louis] Hi.
[Addie] Hi.
Louis Waters.
[man] Welcome to the Brown Palace Hotel, Mr. Waters.
-Thank you. -Mrs. Waters.
Here you go.
Shall we?
Yeah.
[woman] ♪ What a difference a day made ♪
♪ 24 little hours ♪
♪ Brought the sun and the flowers ♪
♪ Where there used to be rain ♪
♪ My yesterday was blue, dear ♪
♪ Today I'm a part of you, dear ♪
♪ My lonely nights are through, dear ♪
♪ Since you said you were mine ♪ ♪ Oh ♪
♪ What a difference a day makes ♪
♪ There's a rainbow before me ♪
♪ Skies above can't be stormy ♪
♪ Since that moment of bliss ♪
♪ That thrilling kiss ♪
-[Louis] Well, hello. -Hello.
So... we're doing this.
-Do you want to? -I do.
Yeah, but?
-No buts. -Oh?
It has been a while.
Have you forgotten how?
No.
Well...
you know, we don't need to rush.
We can take our time.
[Dorlan] You guys have a good one. That's you, too, Madame.
-Let me tell you about them two. -[door opens, closes]
She is what you would call an angry bitch--
[man] Hey, Louis.
[Louis] Hi. How are you guys?
[Dorlan] Face from the past.
-Here. -Here you go.
-[Dorlan] Long time no see. -Yeah, it has been.
I was telling one. Here's another one.
You guys remember the one about the guy who started to have sex again?
-Here I go. -[bowling pins clatter]
I'm gonna go to France, which I'm so excited to go to Paris.
I have friends that have moved to Switzerland,
so I'll take a little break there
and then finally end up in Italy, right in Florence.
[Addie] You've got it all planned out.
-[chuckles] -You sure you want to do this?
[laughing] Dad. Yeah.
I've already been accepted into a print-making workshop.
Gonna need any help paying for this?
-I've saved up a little. -Hmm.
I mean, more than a little, actually a lot.
You know what I wish?
I wish that you'd find a really nice guy to travel to Europe with,
go to Italy with him?
Travel around, have him take care of you, have him cook for you.
-Just wait on you hand and foot. -[laughs]
You know, maybe she'll find one there.
Thank you, Addie.
My dad seems to think it's his fault
that my relationships don't last longer than six months.
But... yeah.
I'm trying to take responsibility for my own stuff.
-Maybe you two should-- -No, no. Stay, please.
Don't go.
There was, um, a year when I was little
There was, um, a year when I was little when things weren't so good at home.
And my dad bought me a train set.
And he told me that we were gonna build it together,
and then when we were done, it was gonna take us to amazing places.
Well... this is me building my own train.
And I wanted to make sure to come here and tell you that.
And my therapist wanted me to come here and tell you that.
[laughs] I don't know.
-[sniffles] -But...
Hey.
I'm gonna hang on to this...
-so I can keep track of you. -[Holly laughs]
I'll get the check.
[Addie] Good for you.
Good for you.
Bye, Addie. Bye, Dad. I love you. I'll call you!
-[tires screech] -[Addie] Oh, my God.
-[horn honks] -[Louis] Be careful!
That daughter of yours is really something.
-Yeah, she sure is. -Wow.
-Do you know what I realized? -What?
We're not big news anymore.
We're not only not big news. We're not even little news anymore. -[Addie chuckles] Do you want to be news? -Well, you know what I want?
-[Addie chuckles] Do you want to be news? -Well, you know what I want?
-[Addie chuckles] Do you want to be news? -Well, you know what I want? I just want to live out my day and then come tell you about it at night.
I just want to live out my day and then come tell you about it at night.
♪ Where there used to be rain ♪
Hey, Louis.
-[door closes] -Oh, hi, Charlie.
Everyone's been looking for you all morning.
Where have you been?
I was up at Phillips getting my winter tires. Why?
Uh, hey, Louis, um...
W-- What's up?
-Yes? -Addie Moore?
Addie Moore.
-Addie. -[groans]
-Oh. -I didn't mean to scare you. [chuckles weakly] Louis. Oh, Louis.
[chuckles weakly] Louis. Oh, Louis.
Oh, I'm so stupid. [sighs]
It was just a dumb fall. I-- I wasn't paying attention.
You have much pain?
-Mm. -Yeah.
I'm gonna have to have surgery, but I'm gonna be okay.
What can I do?
Kiss me?
Really?
[Gene] How are you?
[Addie] Oh, I'll be fine.
Yeah, you'll be fine?
I just spoke to the doctors, and they say it's not so good.
-[Gene stammers] -Gene, it's gonna be fine.
I'm sorry. Would you mind stepping out for a second?
[Addie] Gene.
Mom, it's supposed to be family only back here, all right?
It's okay. I'll go back to the house and pick up some stuff.
[Addie] Gene wants me to move in with him and Jamie.
He's worried that I'm too far away and on my own.
I told him I was not on my own.
Well, I appreciate that.
I guess it's...
I guess it's good, right?
I mean, he cares about you.
I, um...
I don't think Beverly's coming back.
[sighs] And he's gonna need help with Jamie.
So what are you gonna do?
Well, I told him...
that I couldn't just...
I couldn't just give up everything and leave here.
What was it you said about not trying to fix everything all the time?
That was for you, not me.
[laughs] Oh, that's right.
I missed our bed.
Yeah.
Hello? Jamie?
Where's this go?
I think that you can finish this here. -See if that fits. -No.
-See if that fits. -No. No?
Well, you did great here.
This is awesome.
Almost.
-Yeah, but-- -[car approaches, metal slams]
Hey, let's take this into your room, okay?
Come on, here. Let's finish this off in your room.
Okay, I'm going.
Gene?
Where the hell have you been?
[Gene] Shh. Don't start.
He's seven years old. What the hell are you thinking?
Is it-- Is that Louis' truck?
Yes.
He's inside with Jamie.
So you and Louis Waters are going to have a pretend family, is that it?
[sighs] Gene, come up here. Let me make you some coffee.
Come here.
[laughs] Oh, come on.
Stop pretending like you care. Come on.
[Addie] I'm your mother. Of course I care.
No, you don't, and you never did.
And that's okay. It's okay--
I know that I wasn't perfect, but I tried.
No, you didn't! You didn't!
[chuckles] You didn't. Come on.
[chuckles] You weren't there.
[chuckles] I'm really drunk.
Look what I did.
[chuckles] You should see what I did.
Come inside.
Listen, I gotta tell you something.
Do you remember that night... [clears throat] ...after the accident at the ambulance?
I remember the ambulance. Of course.
-Yeah? -Oh, God, Gene.
-Yeah? -Oh, God, Gene. Now, you remember or you don't.
I'm giving you another chance here.
-Of course I remember the ambulance. -You do? Okay. You couldn't even look at me for weeks.
You couldn't even look at me for weeks.
Oh, honey, I never blamed anybody for Connie's death.
I didn't.
Stop denying it.
Stop denying it.
I'm, uh... I appreciate you coming here.
Let's go inside.
Louis, do you mind if I sleep alone tonight?
Okay.
Can I at least help you upstairs?
Hey.
Addie, you can't let him get to you like this.
I know you.
I know you're a good mother.
No, I did all the right things. I took him to his soccer games and his dentist appointments and...
I took him to his soccer games and his dentist appointments and...
Addie.
I did everything you're supposed to do.
He was only five.
He needed me.
I have to try to make things right with Gene, and for... for Jamie.
You know... there's nothing for me here either.
Addie, you're where I want to be.
I can't take you with me, Louis.
I can't.
They're my family.
[chuckles] So... So this is our last night?
Bye, Nana! Have a good day, okay?
[Jamie] The other Bonny. That time that I was with my friend Oliver,
and we were just digging and having a nice little time,
and then suddenly I hit something hard.
You know what that was? That was a nail.
More than a hundred years because my friend's dad knows a lot about history,
and he confirmed that it was probably more than a hundred years ago.
And he said it was more than a hundred years old.
-[Addie gasps] -I have it in my room.
-Will you show it to me later? -Okay.
What do you suppose it was from, a railroad tie or something?
Mnh-mnh. It looked very thin. [Gene] What do you want to do with it? You want to sell it?
[Gene] What do you want to do with it? You want to sell it?
[giggles] I think maybe keep it.
Keep it and then sell it in ten years.
-Mm... -When it's 200 years old. -Yeah. -[laughs]
[woman] ...natural light that will come into this house.
You've got mature trees.
You know, you just can't get landscaping like this anymore, right?
[woman] It's pretty.
Hey, Rudy.
Hey, Louis.
Sorry to hear about Charlie. Uh, yeah. He went in his sleep.
Uh, yeah. He went in his sleep.
That's the best way to go, if you ask me.
"Weeks passed, and the little rabbit grew very old and shabby,
but the boy loved him just as much.
He loved him so hard that he loved all his whiskers off.
And the pink lining to his ears turned gray,
and his brown spots faded.
He even began to lose his shape,
and he scarcely looked like a rabbit anymore,
except to the boy."
Hello?
Louis?
I'm-- I'm having trouble sleeping.
Yeah, you and me both.
What should we do about it?
I don't know.
The nights are the worst, don't you think?
[chuckles] I do. I do.
We could try talking. What do you think about that?
Oh, I think that's a good idea.
Never know what it might lead to.
So what do you want to talk about?
[Addie] Oh, God, anything. Everything.
-'Morning. -'Morning, buddy.
Another complaint? No, it's straight from the Governor's office.
Look at her.
It's Shaka, I saw her this morning.
Look.
What's that in the air?
A sea lion.
They like to play with them before killing them.
A bit cruel, aren't they?
Everything OK, Beto?
Bonetti!
Bonetti!
For fuck's sake, Bubas! Do you know what time it is?
What the hell is this?
We've been warning you.
Do you know the complaints we've had?
If any of these photos got out my head would roll.
Have you forgotten who agreed to live in that wilderness?
I know all you've done for the reserve,
but I don't want problems.
I'm thinking of transferring you.
Good morning, ma'am. Good morning...
I'm sorry we've invaded you like this.
And I'm sorry about this mess. We were waiting for you.
Bring me a basin of water, please.
Excuse me?
Bring me a basin of water, please.
Take the cloth and wet it.
Put it here, please.
Take those middle scissors, bring them here.
Cut there, farther down.
Listen to me, please.
We came because my son has a problem and I think you can help us.
If you'll let me explain... If I don't get him into the water now he'll die.
I'm sorry.
We hardly slept last night.
Who are you?
Didn't they tell you?
No. How did you get here?
A woman brought us.
I think her name was Marcela. She's pregnant.
We've come from Spain.
My son has autism. It was diagnosed when he was two.
Tristán has never felt emotion about anything but...
when he saw you on television with the orcas he reacted in a...
he reacted in a... What's your name?
Lola.
Does your son eat fish?
There's no coverage here.
Sorry.
He likes your necklace.
Have you been living here long?
What's your plan?
I have no plan.
How could you come here with a sick child and no plan?
It isn't a sickness, it's a brain disorder.
For your information water is precious here.
I'm sorry.
It's the only thing that calms him.
When he saw the images
he placed his hands on the screen as if he was stroking the orcas, and he smiled.
He'd never shown empathy for anything before.
I'd like to see what would happen if you took him to...
An experiment.
A therapy.
You can't do either of them.
Since two years ago, it's forbidden to touch the orcas.
-For you too? -For everyone.
Then the National Geographic documentary was before...
I see.
It's logical that I can't go near them,
but that someone like you can't...
Some people are annoyed by what they don't understand
and others don't want to understand what annoys them.
Could you tell him to...?
Thank you.
I understand,
but we can't just leave without trying.
You're our last hope.
Where are you going to stay? There's no room here.
Tristán, please don't touch that.
I imagine that here every year must feel like ten.
Have you been here for many years?
Ninety, according to your criterion.
OK, OK, Tris, it's all right. Come on.
It's all over, come on.
It's all over, relax.
Fucking great.
This is no place for your son.
Let me do it, don't bother.
Come on, Rigel.
You haven't come to visit me in a long time.
Come on, stand up.
What are you doing here?
It seems there's no room in the cabin.
And where will you go?
I'll try to change our tickets.
Come to my place, I'll take you into town tomorrow.
Inti, get the case.
-Do you know what it is? -The old ladies say it's a girl.
But here, until it's born, you don't know.
Thank you for helping us yesterday. I couldn't leave you in the middle of the road.
Beto didn't appear till the next morning. He had an injured seal.
A sea lion, there are no seals here. Well, whatever, it doesn't matter.
You cross half the world thinking you're going to find a sensitive man...
because of his love for orcas, for nature.
And it was a huge disappointment.
I know he won't help us.
And I don't know what to do.
Well, tonight you stay with us and tomorrow...
-What a fright! -Inti, make it dance!
Hang on.
Hang on.
Faster!
Faster, Inti!
Stop, Inti, stop. Stop, the child's getting scared.
Look, a guanaco. It's easy to see them here.
Look, a guanaco. It's easy to see them here. That's great...
We live here. Hello, pa!
That's Manolo, my husband. He and Beto are good friends.
A cell phone? Forget it! That doesn't work here.
Do you want to come fishing? No, he doesn't like fishing, love.
No, he doesn't like fishing, love. All right.
-You always use it! -Stop!
You always take it, it's mine!
It's lovely today, but when the wind blows it's terrible.
At times I think all of Patagonia is going to fly away.
I can't remember the last time I wore an overskirt.
We just call it a skirt.
Thank you.
Very bitter.
Do you want to learn how to fly it?
"Autism:
Early infant disorder characterized by the congenital inability
to establish verbal and affective contact with people
and the need to maintain an absolutely stable environment".
Is your mother here? She's in the house.
Good morning.
Hello.
If you're ready we'll go now.
Beto?
-Did you come to say goodbye? -Where are you going?
Back to Spain.
Well...
I wanted you to come with me.
With you? Where?
It doesn't matter, forget it.
Ciao, Marcela.
What?
Put this on, it's very cold there.
Where's there? Go with him.
Here they come.
Look.
Shaka is going to attack.
Calm down, sweetheart.
Let's go.
You can sleep here with your son.
How could you show us something so cruel? Didn't you want to see orcas?
Then why did you come?
You're very privileged. You saw something unique today.
Millions of people would pay anything to see what you saw.
And all you can say
is that it was cruel.
Nature is like that at times.
With that attitude you won't help your son.
Excuse me?
-With what attitude? -Stop acting for him.
You don't let him breathe.
You obviously don't have children.
Don't play the victim.
Why do you want to help us now?
Why is there suddenly room here?
Don't touch that.
The bathroom? I couldn't find it before.
Outside.
Outside where?
Come with me.
Tris,
keep tidying up, I won't be long.
You see that flickering light?
That's Punta Delgada. And the one twinkling out there...
That's Punta Norte.
Thank you, but I'd like to know where the bathroom is, not the lighthouses.
Here.
The bathroom is between the two lighthouses.
Watch out for the cliff.
And the scorpions too. Don't squat down too much.
I'm going to show you the things I work with.
With this I see the orcas.
You'll definitely like this.
This is a Russian gadget.
It's for night vision.
Look.
No, no.
Look.
That's it.
GENEALOGY
You want to play?
That child has autism.
I think the orcas can help him. For fuck's sake, Bubas, now you're an expert in autism too.
For fuck's sake, Bubas, now you're an expert in autism too.
Apparently contact with dolphins helps them.
They emit an ultrasound that the hypothalamus picks up
and it gives them a sense of well-being, of emotional balance.
If I could show that it works with orcas too, wouldn't that change things?
What are you getting at?
I want to see how he reacts when they're near him. -With killer orcas? -Just from the shore.
-With killer orcas? -Just from the shore. With how they destroy sea lions?
There's no record of orcas in freedom attacking humans.
Forget it.
If I see you near the orcas with that boy I'll expel you from the Rangers.
Have a nice day.
It could be a good business.
Look at it like that.
MY FAVOURITE TOYS
We're going out in the boat. You want to come?
Tris, come on.
I'll take him.
-It's all right. -Calm down.
Are you all right, my love?
We have to wait.
It's Shaka.
She doesn't have her calf.
Come on, girl.
Come on, come here.
Hello, Shaka.
Here... No, let him do it.
Throw it to her.
That's it, very good.
-Look. -Hey, girl.
My love!
He only does that when he's really happy. He did it when he saw you on TV.
Very bitter.
The mate or me?
This is Shaka.
Her calf is probably dead.
She's a fascinating animal.
How do you recognize them?
From the shape of the dorsal fin and from the saddle.
You see that white patch there?
Yes.
It's different on every animal.
It's their fault we're here.
I never thought an animal could give me such hope.
They're very intelligent.
Of the 60,000 orcas in the world, only five developed that hunting technique
and they all live here.
Why don't they do it anywhere else?
I've been trying for 15 years to find that out.
You have your obsessions too.
They're my family in the sea, and I'm...
their friend on the coast.
It would do him good to see them again.
Hi, pal.
Ma'am, they rang the office from Spain, asking for you.
It seems urgent. Thank you.
Thanks, pal.
Listen...
Listen, Susana, you know he doesn't listen to me.
All right... So you'll talk to him.
Thank you, really.
Hello?
Hello? Can you hear me?
Everything OK?
More or less.
He's fallen asleep.
I'm going inside to read for a while.
Thanks for supper, Roberto.
Call me Beto.
Tomorrow it's the shearing festival.
Do you want to come? It's great fun.
Will there be many people? Yes, it's the big festival of the year. There's a band, dancing...
Yes, it's the big festival of the year. There's a band, dancing... I think you'll like it.
I don't think it's a good idea.
Very loud music and crowds make Tristán very nervous.
There'll be lots of children playing. It might do him good.
Yes, but he doesn't like playing with other children.
Ciao.
How was your first encounter with orcas?
It was with a male,
Mel.
A merciless hunter.
That day, he'd been hunting at Punta Cormoranes.
He'd stayed near the reef.
He knew that I was watching him.
I went down to the water's edge, very slowly,
and we looked at each other for a good while.
I picked up some seaweed and threw it at him.
Then Mel pushed it towards me with his snout.
He wanted to play.
It's wonderful.
Look.
See that star? It's the brightest one in the whole sky.
It's called Sirius.
If you go to there, to there, to there
and there, there are four stars that form a cross.
See it?
It's the Southern Cross.
Sailor used to navigate by it.
He brought you the seaweed...
Then what happened?
I threw it to him again and he brought it back,
I threw it to him again and he brought it back, but he left it farther away.
So I went into the sea
and he came up to me.
I stretched out my hand and stroked him.
And he stayed there,
for a little while.
Then he turned and went out to sea.
Is that the seaweed you have framed?
The next day I went back.
Mel was there, waiting for me.
I went into the sea
and he came up beside me.
Then I held on to his dorsal fin
and he carried me along.
We dived together...
It was one of the most magical moments of my life.
Let's go.
I don't want Tristán to wake and see I'm not there.
He might get scared.
Can I help you tidy up?
Shall we go out in the boat and maybe see some orcas?
Just you and me.
Come on.
Come on.
I'm going to see the orcas. If you don't want to come...
Beto! Beto!
I'll take the seaweed.
Good.
Do you want to row?
Come here.
Lean back, with your two arms like this...
Lean back, with your two arms like this... Now...
That's it.
Very good.
Want to taste this?
Careful, it's hot.
Now you're a real gaucho.
What are you doing?
Isn't today the shearing festival?
GRAND SHEARING FESTIVAL
Silence, please, silence!
With our skin hardened by the sun, we face winds and rain,
across the solitude of our land always seeking better pastures.
And this is harvest time. Ladies and gentlemen, let the shearing begin!
Come on!
Come on!
Join in!
Take her out to dance.
-Now? -Now.
Turn?
That way.
Now we turn.
This is the first time in ages that I feel calm.
I got used to living with sadness
and I forgot what it was to feel this.
Thank you, Beto, thank you.
OK, I'm going! It's your turn.
Look, Inti. Look at this.
It's great fun. Don't you want to come?
Tristán, what are you doing there?
Come and play! Come and play with us.
Leave him alone.
Calm down, my love. Stop, stop.
It's all right. -Calm down. -Help me, we have to get him out.
-Calm down. -Help me, we have to get him out.
A faucet! Where is there a faucet?
-Come on. -Take it easy.
It must have been very difficult for you.
When his father left us, Tristán started hurting himself.
He went deeper into his own world.
And the glove?
It's the only reminder of his father.
He forgot it when he moved out.
The last two years have been a real hell.
You were very brave to come here.
You'd be a wonderful father, Beto.
They all said it was my fault,
that I'd protected him too much when he was a baby.
By the time he was diagnosed, I'd fought with the whole family.
Tristán has wonderful glasses with which he sees the world.
Only he has them.
You're the loveliest thing to happen to me in a long time.
Beto...
I can't.
I can't suffer any more, Beto, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry.
I like sitting there too, and watching the dawn.
It's like seeing a documentary on Discovery Channel.
From here you can see half the world.
Look,
if we take the boat and row towards the east,
for days, weeks and months,
do you know where we'd land?
Southern Australia.
From here to there there's only water.
6,000 miles of water. Isn't it incredible?
How can anyone shower like this every day?
It's good for the circulation.
Circulation?
I fix mine with herbal tea and things like that.
I'm going to the attack channel. I'll be back by night.
I'll get dressed and fix some supper!
You know what, love? Believe it or not, I'm starting to like this place.
Tris?
Tris?
Tristán!
Tristán!
Tristán!
Tristán!
Tristán!
Tristán! Tristán!
Tristán!
Tristán!
-Beto, Beto... -What's wrong?
Tristán has disappeared, I've looked everywhere.
Tristán has disappeared, I've looked everywhere. Calm down. Where did you last see him?
Calm down. Where did you last see him? Sitting like always in his place on the cliff.
Sitting like always in his place on the cliff.
I don't know where else I can look.
Calm down.
Stay here.
Follow the light, my love.
Tristán!
Tristán!
Can anyone hear me?
Please, this is an emergency.
Come on, Rigel!
I'm here.
I made it.
I'm here.
My love, my love, my love.
Come on. Where was he? I found him on the beach.
My love. Come on.
Thank you, my friend.
Punta Lobos, do you read me? Is anyone there? Over.
His fever's worse.
Punta Lobos, is anyone there? Do you read me? Over.
Punta Lobos, do you read me? Over.
I'll get Manolo and we bring the truck.
Beto!
I'm sorry.
Lighthouse of the Orcas. This is Punta Lobos. Do you read me? Over.
Lighthouse of the Orcas. Lighthouse of the Orcas.
Beto! Beto!
You didn't hear me. I had to stop you. Someone's on the radio.
You didn't hear me. I had to stop you. Someone's on the radio. -Are you crazy? -I'm sorry.
-Are you crazy? -I'm sorry.
Good morning, ma'am. Excuse me.
My son needs a doctor, he's got a fever.
Get in the truck. Thank you.
This time you've gone too far.
I've got the authorization.
-You're finished here. -He's just trying to help my son.
No, he isn't helping your son. He's helping himself.
This man was forbidden to go near the orcas.
I don't understand why. If tourists see him playing with orcas, they'll want to do it too,
If tourists see him playing with orcas, they'll want to do it too, and we're talking about wild animals, killers.
and we're talking about wild animals, killers. Did you not think about that?
How on earth could you endanger a child's life?
Tell her I'm waiting in the truck.
Ma'am... please...
This man is using you for his own ends.
The other day he offered me a deal.
He wants to make money from your son's illness.
MY FAVORITE TOYS
He's in hospital, we can't leave.
He has to hang on a bit longer. I don't know...
Please, give me a few more days.
I don't know how you could do it.
I didn't choose to live alone.
Ever since I was little, I've wanted to live in nature,
but not in solitude.
Another of my passions was flying.
I had an old plane,
just a little one. We travelled the peninsula in it.
One day when we were heading north,
a storm broke out.
We were hit by lightning and we started to lose height.
I tried to land on the beach, but a gust of wind blew us onto the sea.
They were never found.
My son was Tristán's age.
I suggested to Bonetti about working with Tristán and Shaka...
If it worked,
I could maybe work with other kids who had the same problem.
Only money could convince him, that's why I suggested a business.
Lola,
the orcas are my life,
it's all I've got left.
It's...
It's my link to the seabed.
And they want to separate me from them.
You understand?
Hello, Beto.
You want to brush him?
Come here.
Don't be afraid.
I know...
Rigel...
Give him this, he loves them.
That's it.
Look...
Put your hand there.
Hold it tight. Now...
You go...
from top to bottom.
Wax on, wax off. Wax on, wax off.
You're too young to know "The Karate Kid".
Look,
there.
On his chest.
He likes it there.
Go on. Go on.
Shall we have a ride on Rigel?
Come on.
One arm here,
another arm here...
That's it.
Sorry.
All ready.
Today you're Beto.
I'll lift you up.
That's it.
Hello. Hello, Marcela.
How are you?
On my own, they went out on Rigel. -Fancy that. -Coffee?
-Fancy that. -Coffee? -I've got mate but I'll join you. -Come on.
We'll go inside.
It was terrible.
How did he survive?
Some fishermen found him unconscious on the beach.
There's a legend in town...
They say Shaka pushed him to the coast.
That explains his connection with her.
And what about you and Beto?
Look, you hold the reins here, both of them,
and you go one way or the other. That's very good.
My son loved orcas too.
He always asked me to take him to the attack channel.
I never did...
I'm not from here, I'm from Buenos Aires.
A nice city girl.
I never thought that I'd find happiness here,
in this remote part of the world,
inhospitable, isolated...
That I'd start painting again, rear my children,
without fear, without interference...
I forgot, I was at the Post Office and they gave me this for you.
I have to go.
The kids are expecting me.
-Thank you, Marcela. -Don't mention it.
Ciao. Thank you.
-Here! -Thank you!
They love that melody.
It keeps us united.
I don't think they're coming.
We should go back. I don't want to worry your mom.
Hang on...
That's it.
Did you see?
Some have an excellent memory for what interests them.
It's very good.
What are you doing?
We have to go back to Madrid.
My lawyer sent it.
We'll try to find a solution.
There isn't one.
You've known this for a while.
We tried to get his father to withdraw the complaint but...
it's impossible.
Don't go.
I have to.
If I don't, they'll take him away.
Why does this happen just when things are going well?
I don't want to go.
This is the first time I've seen my son happy.
All I want is to stay with you. Then stay.
-No. -Yes. Look, I can open a door there and make a bedroom for Tristán.
Look, I can open a door there and make a bedroom for Tristán.
And I can make a proper bathroom there.
I can't risk losing him.
Then go back, talk to his father.
Then go back, talk to his father. I'll be here waiting for you.
He'll never let me.
I won't be able to do anything until Tristán turns 18.
That's how it is.
Why don't you come to Spain?
We have orcas in the Straits of Gibraltar.
I'm joking.
You needn't say anything.
I know your place is here.
My God... Tristán!
Beto! Tristán...!
-Calm down. -Tristán! I know where he's going.
-What? -Trust me.
He knows where he's going.
Don't worry.
Shaka.
IN MEMORY OF FONCHO
In 2009, Beto was transferred to the Playa del Doradillo, a breeding area for whales, never visited by orcas.
Since his arrival, orcas have been sighted in the area
Mrs. de Wit? My name is Andries Riphagen.
I'm from the Devisenschutz. This is my colleague, Joop Out.
You don't happen to hide Jews or Jewish property, do you?
Me? Oh no.
Nice house you've got.
You live here by yourself?
Yes.
Just us two.
What do you do for a living?
I used to be a carpenter. -Oh, nice.
So was Jesus.
You know who killed him, don't you? -The Romans.
Listen.
We have nothing against Jews. We just follow the law.
So if you're hiding anyone, you'd better say so.
We have nothing to say.
They send them to work in Germany. What's that to you?
We hear different stories. -People parrot each other and exaggerate.
Well, shall we go upstairs together?
We've known her for such a long time.
Where is your money? -My husband had our money.
And where's your husband? -He is caught already.
Would you mind turning around?
I believe I can help you.
But then you mustn't lie.
I want to congratulate you.
Amsterdam is almost free of Jews.
Has the police anywhere else done their job as well...
as you here in Amsterdam?
You can be proud.
But of course there are always a few who slip through the net.
Can you send the last Jews on transport as well?
From today on a bounty will be paid. 7.50 guilders for every arrested Jew.
A bit late. They've all gone into hiding.
Frits. -Hey, Jan.
Heil Hitler.
You can throw all ID cards away.
They're introducing new ones. They use a new sort of ink.
Lages...
Lages has set a bounty.
Jan, if you want to stop... -Do you have more people on the force?
Well, then.
The Germans also need a new supply.
I can find out when they'll be ready for transport in The Hague.
This house has been requisitioned by the Devisenschutz.
It will be put up for sale, but for now you're safe here.
And how can I thank you?
Just wait till this is all over.
Come.
Men, I've heard Lages will pay you 7.50 per Jew. That's absurd.
I'll raise it by ten guilders out of my own pocket.
Ten bucks for every tip you bring to me personally.
And can we keep the Jews' belongings?
No, Jewish property gets requisitioned by the Devisenschutz.
But you already knew that. -Do you know that as well?
Can you take a photo of us?
Gentlemen, come stand next to me.
A family.
I was going to give them to Lages. But for 40 guilders extra they're yours.
Do you have a light?
I don't smoke.
Ten guilders is a lot of money.
We have to help one another. -Out of your own pocket?
What do you get out of it? -Nothing.
Why would you do that?
I try to help them.
Who?
Maybe later. When I know which side you're on.
Riphagen.
Come with me.
Any successes these last few days?
Only false leads. -Only false leads.
No Jews in hiding, no cash, nothing at all?
Wery, Elizabeth. 'Betje'. Got arrested at the railway station.
Widow. Jewish mother, half-Jewish father.
Willing to talk if we spare her family. -What do I have to do with it?
I'm not happy with your results.
If we want to stay friends, you'll have to do better.
The false leads can wait, can't they?
I expect results.
So tell me, you filthy traitor...
why should I not send you and your family to Mauthausen?
Point them out. On the map.
What?
Jews in hiding. In Amsterdam.
I'm from Rotterdam.
She doesn't know anything.
Then put her on transport. -I know someone. With the resistance.
Who?
Who?
Charly.
Hartog. He brags about raids and stuff.
Go to that man. -And my ID card?
I'll hold onto it. -But if I get arrested?
You won't get arrested. You'll be watched.
Come, they're upstairs.
Good afternoon, everyone.
Pretty smart, hiding in your own house.
And now? -I believe I can help you.
But there must be mutual trust.
Coffee?
You're new. -I've been working here for years.
I've served you many times before.
Sorry, I couldn't resist it. I'm covering for my sister.
Oh, the other red one.
I think she doesn't like me much.
She found you in bed with another girl. And you asked her to join them.
Not a good first impression, I guess. -I was curious, actually.
It's safe here.
keep calm but be prepared no point in being scared Choose whatever you like.
It's not completely kosher.
Before I forget.
Here I have your receipt. From the SD, for your diamonds.
You gave them to the SD? -Not all of them. Ten, to be exact.
I have to give them something or they'll notice.
The rest I'll keep till after the war. Then you'll get them back.
I can write out a receipt for them too...
but if that falls into the wrong hands, we're both doomed.
Why are you doing this for me?
I...
I lived in Germany before the war. I was married to a Jewish girl.
I don't want to go into the details, but I wasn't able to save her.
Look, I have the perfect cover. The Germans think I work for them...
Look, I have the perfect cover. The Germans think I work for them... but in the meantime...
It's just very difficult to know who you can trust.
Here you go.
Sorry, pal, but I didn't order this. -Ari did.
Ari, why do I get a beer from you? -Dries, Kemp is bothering me.
Kemp? What does he want?
I have two Jewish friends. Kemp will betray them if I don't pay him.
I'll be right back. Kemp.
Get out of here. -But I didn't do anything.
He's not welcome anymore.
I'm sorry you had to see this.
Well, we have to help one another, don't we?
Well, we have to help one another, don't we? We sure do.
Ari, can you take a photo of us? -Of course.
I have friends you can trust. And relatives.
No Jews allowed
SD.
You are here for? -None of your business.
Obersturmführer Kessler, SD There's a suspicion of fraud. Where's your safe?
There's a suspicion of fraud. Where's your safe?
Go on, I don't have all day.
The keys.
Yes. Yes.
Yes, that's correct. Yes.
ID. -Excuse me?
Now, come.
What's going on? -I can't tell pending the investigation.
I'd like to make a phone call to check.
You're not a suspect yet. Keep it that way.
Did you leave your post?
Who's guarding the entrance?
We need those papers for further investigation.
Do I have to carry them by myself?
So this is Dries. -How do you do.
He has to give a small part to the SD, there's no other way...
but the rest is safe with him.
I've known them for 35 years. You can trust them.
Ari, can you take a photo?
Finally, I said to him: 'And don't leave your post again.'
Almost 10,000.
Well done.
10,000 men and women won't go on transport. Is that worth the trouble or not?
It's Charly, with the new messenger girl.
Is there a party here? -Good work, Charly.
Jan. Fritsie.
Hi. -Hello.
I'm Jan. -Bella. Bella Tuerlings.
Hello, Bella Tuerlings. -Hello, Jan...
Van Liempd. -Hello, Jan van Liempd.
What's there to celebrate? -That's a secret.
What's there to celebrate? -That's a secret. But you'll have a lot of work as a messenger.
I wanted to keep it small.
But my wife wanted a grand ceremony with all the bells and whistles.
A woman deserves that, doesn't she? -Yes.
I worked double shifts for years to pay for it all.
How about you?
Are you married? -Yes.
But he passed away.
I'm so sorry. -Don't be.
You didn't know.
What was it like?
He was the love of my life.
I want to go home.
Is your sister not here?
Well, what have you got?
Do I really have to tell you?
I have to bring these to Utrecht for them. They call themselves the 'ID Card Centre'.
I have to bring these to Utrecht for them. They call themselves the 'ID Card Centre'. The leader is called Gerrit van der Veen.
I see. And how many of these do they have?
How much do they make with these? -Nothing.
They don't do it for the money.
Go back and keep an eye on them.
How much longer? -Till I say that you can stop.
Who is it? -Andries Riphagen. From the guesthouse.
My sister isn't here.
I'm not here for your sister. I'm here for you.
It's not a good time.
For me, really? -Yes.
What's going on? -That always happens when he's drunk.
Open the goddamn door. -No.
Open it.
Shall I... -Filthy whore.
What do you want, asshole?
Did you call me an asshole? Did you?
On your knees.
Well, go on and hit him.
No. -Either you hit him or I will.
And now it's your turn.
He won't do anything. You won't do anything, right?
He won't do anything. You won't do anything, right? No.
Gee.
Any plans for the rest of the day?
I believe I'm not in my right mind I'm continuously lost in thought
suddenly I've become a different person my heart beats like a set of drums
Are you really as dangerous as they say?
You work for the Nazis. -No I don't.
What's the matter? -You lie. I don't like that.
Alright.
I work for the SD.
I can't say much about it, but I don't work there to help the Nazis.
Who then? -I'll tell you some other time.
Mysterious.
Hey, I'm from the same place you're from.
But there was no one to help me.
Just look into the lens.
I've thought about what you said.
That you were willing to help us. We're afraid we'll lose our house.
So maybe we can do it this way.
We have to help one another, don't we?
Yes.
Two more whiskies. -Thank you.
My pleasure.
And if you think very hard?
No, I've already referred to you everyone I trust, Dries.
Some people think you're my lover.
They see us together so often.
Well, if I'd been born 20 years earlier...
You said you could help me get to England by way of Antwerp.
True. Eventually. -I think it's time.
I'll take care of it.
This...
is for you.
Saint Christopher, the patron saint of travelers.
Is this not more for Catholics? -As long as it works.
It brought me to you. I hope it will protect you too.
Thank you.
Go pack your bags. Tomorrow I'll personally bring you to Antwerp.
Albert. -Jan.
Can I have a word with you? -Yes.
Two lists.
Jan, we're going to make a few bucks.
Why us? -Orders from the SD.
Alright, go on then.
Well, there it is. Number 26.
No. -Yes.
Esther Schaap?
No. -Come on.
No, that can't be.
Where are the previous owners? -Emigrated.
Where are the previous owners? -Emigrated. And I paid them dearly for this. -Dries.
And I paid them dearly for this. -Dries.
Sweetheart, they're safe. I put them on the boat myself.
I was promised protection.
Did Dries Riphagen promise you protection?
Of course not. This address comes from him.
You make me so happy, Dries. -Do I?
Stop! Stop it.
I feel safe with you. -You are.
Do you really work for the police?
And for the SD?
The SD? No.
But I saw your SD pass in the car.
That was fake. That was for the raid on the State Printing House.
Why won't you accept it?
The Germans have won, haven't they?
You can't change the world all by yourself.
And you know what? These people asked for it.
Who hurled the world into a crisis? The Wall Street bankers did. They're Jews, you know.
The Wall Street bankers did. They're Jews, you know. We arrest normal families, not bankers.
Then why don't you quit as a policeman? -They'll send me off to Germany. Then what?
You could go into hiding. -I can't.
Why not?
That's what the Jews are doing.
Think, Jan. Think hard.
Riphagen, come with me.
You can pack your things, Mr. Riphagen.
Why? -Your license has been revoked.
You're under investigation.
Investigation?
You thought you could take what belongs to Germany?
Nonsense. -What's your current address?
You had me followed? -Does that surprise you?
You live in a house that belongs to the Devisenschutz and therefore to Germany.
The investigation will reveal whether that's your only offense.
Pack your things. Be here tomorrow morning at 9.
With your wife.
Gerrit van der Veen.
Does he trust you? -Why?
I'm going to deliver him and his group to Lages. And you will help me.
Why didn't you come to me before? -I...
I've only just found out.
And Miss... -Wery.
Wery.
...will tell us everything about this Gerrit van der Veen... and the raid on the State Printing House...
If the investigation against me stops. -Sure.
We can also take our info to The Hague, where the raid took place.
If you'd like to see me go. . . But let's keep it within the family, shall we?
Heil Hitler.
Ciao, Bella, Tuerlings.
This is much better. Not as dark as the Stadhouderskade.
Can we get the key by next week? -Yes. I don't use this room anyway.
You want to see the other room as well? -Yes, please.
Hey, don't I know you?
I'm not going to betray any more people.
I can't.
Do you want to go to Poland with your parents that badly?
It's all gone wrong.
They took Charly, Eline and Toos to the police station.
Can't we rescue them?
You're a policeman, aren't you?
Morning. -Morning.
You're early. -Yes.
I have to go back.
Why? -The staircase leads to the cellblock.
Jan. -You're early.
Yes, so are you. -Yes.
I had some administration to do. -Sure.
You don't want anyone to see, of course. Did you think I'd forgotten?
With regards from Riphagen.
What's going on?
A cigarette?
Well done.
Well done.
Did no one follow you?
It went well.
Did you hear anything about Riphagen? -I never hear anything.
I don't even know what he looks like. I'd walk right past him.
I'll find him. -How?
If they see you, they'll send you to Germany.
Connie's husband is already there. And Ans and Peter's boys. -I won't let them catch me.
And Ans and Peter's boys. -I won't let them catch me. Forget Riphagen.
A man like him will get his just reward. Mark my words.
A restaurant? On the train? -Yes, a restaurant on the train.
I can't believe I'm sitting here. -Why not?
I love you, Dries Riphagen. -And I love you, turtledove.
hello, sweetie pie, hello, honey pie hello, darling little girl
Will you fill up the tub, darling? -Of course.
Don't be afraid, I come for Dries. -How did you get in?
I had nowhere else to go. I'm Bella. -Dries.
Go to the bathroom and close the door. -Who is this?
Now.
Lages threw me out. -Not my problem.
I need my ID and go to Rotterdam. -Get out of my house.
What more do you want? I've betrayed all my friends already. Hit me. Knock me dead.
Dries.
Shall I tell your wife what we have together?
You wait here.
Who is she?
Sorry, darling, she shouldn't have come. -Who is she? And don't lie to me.
She worked at the SD, but she's been fired.
So she just breaks in here? -I know, I told her the same thing.
She's a bit confused. But now she has to leave.
And my parents? -I'll take care of it. Here.
Money for the train.
And if I see you ever again, I will kill you and your parents.
Get lost.
Dries. When is she due? -What do you mean?
When is she due? -What do you mean?
I hope your baby will be born dead.
Dries, isn't it about time for a slight change of course?
What do you mean? -Don't you think it will all end soon?
What do you mean? -Don't you think it will all end soon? After Normandy? -It can't do any harm to spread your bets.
After Normandy? -It can't do any harm to spread your bets.
I'm renting some rooms to people in hiding...
Harry helps with food coupons. So that if the tide turns one day...
Gee, Dries.
I'm on a death list and you want me to join the resistance?
Dries, listen...
Thanks to me you've done well by the Germans.
If I fall, I'll take you with me.
Now that the Allied Forces have crossed the Dutch border...
I want to extend a warm welcome to our allies on Dutch soil.
Has everyone gone crazy or what? -Dries, listen.
Has everyone gone crazy or what? -Dries, listen. This is serious. We have to go.
Where did you want to go? -Germany?
Where did you want to go? -Germany? They're already in Rotterdam. -You expect me to flee my own city?
They're already in Rotterdam. -You expect me to flee my own city?
Is that your car out in front? -Yes.
The keys. Now. -Why?
Martial law. We need a vehicle to go east.
What about me? -The keys.
No.
Please.
In my coat.
Albert. -Jan? Are you still in town?
I'm looking for Andries Riphagen. I want his file from before the war.
Who he worked with, where he lived. Names, addresses.
I'm your superior, remember. -No.
You've been working for the Nazis for four years, and their game is over.
Here, his last known address and those of friends, firms, houses, places he frequented.
Where's Riphagen? -Probably he went east with the SD.
I'm looking for Andries Riphagen.
No idea.
We're closed, gentlemen.
Dries, Joop.
We're taking that red ride. -If you ask politely you can touch it for a bit.
Am I speaking Spanish, smart ass?
We need that car. We have to leave town. Give me the keys.
How much? -We'll pay you later.
That won't happen, Joop. -How often have we done you a favor?
All those German customers we sent your way?
Joop and Dries, running away for the English like two scared boys?
Shut up.
Maybe it's time to admit you chose the wrong side.
Be sensible, really. -Joop.
Jesus, Dries.
There's someone here.
Drop it. -Who are you?
Drop it. -Who are you, goddammit?
Drop it, now. -Don't shoot.
Jan? Jan van Liempd? You're still alive.
I thought I was the only survivor. -Frits.
Man.
I was in hiding.
Why did you shoot him? -He was already dead.
Do you know him? -No.
Then what are you doing here? -Looking for Dries Riphagen. Who's he?
That's Wim Sanders, head of this group. We collect information for the resistance. -Why are you looking for Riphagen?
We collect information for the resistance. -Why are you looking for Riphagen?
The city is full of traitors. What makes him special?
He betrayed Gerrit. -No, Bella Tuerlings betrayed Gerrit.
At Riphagen's orders. It was his idea.
Can you prove it? -No, but he will talk if I find him.
We're taking these. -Here. He's a regular customer.
Let me know if you find him.
Is Dries at home?
No.
Can I come in for a second? I'm a colleague.
I hardly know any of his colleagues.
How well do you know your husband? -How well can you know someone?
I feel for you, Mrs. Riphagen.
And for your baby.
You have a tough time ahead. -I have faith in Dries.
I won't beat around the bush.
It's Hatchet Day. -Hatchet Day?
Today we settle scores with traitors. Dries is on top of the list.
That's why you're here.
If not today, then tomorrow. And if not me, then someone else.
Turn him in now you still can. -Dries is no traitor.
And he works for the SD so he can help Jewish people.
No, that's a lie.
Prove it if you can.
You know Gerrit van der Veen and his group?
They were friends of mine. -So?
Do it for your baby.
I trust Dries. Dries doesn't lie to me.
I want you to leave.
If you change your mind... -I won't.
'Dear Dries, Thank you for your lovely letter.
I miss you too. I hope you are safe in the east.'
'Of course I am not angry. You were right to leave.'
'The news about the liberation was false. They now call it 'Mad Tuesday'.
Most of the Germans are back and act as if nothing ever happened.'
'But something has changed. The city is about to explode.'
Gentlemen?
'Nobody knows who's in charge anymore.' -Let's vote. 'Toon and Harry are terrified.
'Toon and Harry are terrified.
Even if you have done nothing wrong, you're not safe here.
There are no rules anymore.'
I am fine.
No Jews allowed
'It's not fair that we can't be together. You just wanted to help people.
Please stay there while Jan is looking for you.
It's safer and our baby needs a father. I think it will be a boy.
He's as tough as you are. He kicks harder by the day.
Will you write me again? Or send me a photograph?
I will wait for you in Amsterdam. Bye, my darling Dries.'
Marie-Antoinette de Mol, widow of Barthold de Mol.
No criminal record. But there were arms droppings near her farm.
And? -We haven't found anything yet.
Good morning. -I'm so glad, a Dutchman.
As I told your German friend...
I'm sorry, I don't want to do this.
But otherwise he'll send my wife and child to Poland.
Please, if you know anything... Maybe I can win time or warn people.
He will force me to go on till you're dead. If you know...
If you talk, I may be able to help you.
Where are the weapons? -I don't know about any droppings.
Those were my husband's affairs, I don't know...
Calm down, calm down.
Breathe deeply. Easy now.
Please, help me.
Frits. Guys, come, wake up. Jan, we have to go.
Hands off. It's all categorized.
What's in those cabinets? -Information.
About everyone who was on the wrong side, before and during this war.
Dutch Nazis, collaborators.
When were you going to tell us? -So.
When were you going to tell us? -So. Who betrayed us? Jan, we were at your hiding place. Who knew about it?
Who betrayed us? Jan, we were at your hiding place. Who knew about it?
No one.
Fact: two times a resistance group you're part of gets betrayed.
Ours and Gerrit van der Veen's. What do you have to say for yourself? -How dare you?
What do you have to say for yourself? -How dare you?
Gerrit was my best friend. I'd have given my life for him.
But you didn't.
Can you prove you're innocent?
Can you prove I'm guilty? Riphagen betrayed Gerrit.
What are you doing here? What if someone sees you?
Who did you tell where I was?
What? -Who did you tell where I was?
No one. What happened?
Did you betray me? -Why would I, Jan?
You're the only one who knew where I was. -Stop.
Are you crazy? I'm your wife, Jan. I love you.
I'm sorry.
What is it? Albert. -Albert?
Albert. -Albert?
He came to the door a few times. He was looking for you.
Why did you go to Lena? -I was worried about you.
You, worried?
Was he alone? -Yes.
Maybe he followed me.
I know where Riphagen is.
I'm prepared to tell you, but then you must swear...
you'll never forget I'm helping you.
Jesus, man. You collaborated with the Germans the entire war.
Alright, then I won't tell you.
Will you please stay with me tonight?
I swear.
Weapons found in Assen He's in Assen, with the SD.
What if you find him?
No. -What?
My money. -I'll wait outside.
Dries.
Jan.
Come with me. -Where to?
Amsterdam. You're going to confess to the resistance.
Confess what?
You know very well. -Sorry, I have no idea.
Where's Bella? -Bella?
Bella Tuerlings. Or whatever her real name is. -What's this about?
You forced Bella to betray Gerrit van der Veen.
I didn't do that. What did that girl tell you?
If you believe that, why don't you shoot me?
So you come all the way to Assen...
They suspect you, don't they?
You didn't do anything stupid, did you?
You two betrayed Gerrit van der Veen and you want me to take the blame?
No. -I think you do.
I saved your life at the police station. I helped a damn traitor.
I saved your life at the police station. I helped a damn traitor. Your own group.
Do you want sugar or apple syrup on your bread?
You open the door.
My name is Lapian. Personal secretary of Mr. Einthoven.
Mr. Einthoven would like a word with your husband.
What about? -These are our references.
Gerrit van der Veen spoke highly of you. Terrible that he's dead.
Someone will have to take charge after the war.
We'll have to bring war criminals and collaborators to justice.
And there must be a security service, against future attacks.
From the Nazis? -No, from the Communists.
That's where the danger lies now. They're at the Elbe already, a couple of hour's drive.
You worked with Sanders, right? Wim Sanders?
Here.
From Louis Einthoven. Requesting that for state security...
From Louis Einthoven. Requesting that for state security... I turn my archive over to him.
What about Sanders? -Wim Sanders has an archive.
About tens of thousands of Dutch people, but he refuses to share his information.
It's his information. -In the wrong hands it's very dangerous.
Do you know how much information I have about that man? And he wants my archive?
Over my dead body.
You know Sanders is a Communist, right? -Sanders?
'The Red', they call him.
A new Netherlands. Honest, strong, democratic.
And social.
I don't see Wim anymore. -So I've heard.
Get in touch with him again. His archive contains subversive secrets.
It's our duty to keep that information out of Communist hands.
I want all war criminals to be punished.
If you're prepared to fight the Communists, we can mean a lot for each other.
Take your time to think about it.
Are you coming? They say the Canadians will be here today.
The door was open.
Here, the death certificate of Dries Riphagen.
Come on. Let's go celebrate. -I'll be right there.
Let's go celebrate. -I'll be right there.
He's been killed. The murderer wasn't caught.
There was a girl.
Bella Tuerlings.
Maybe she left town, but find out what you can.
Bella Tuerlings? What about her?
She'd infiltrated with us. -No more, Jan.
She and Riphagen betrayed Gerrit. -I found Riphagen. Look for her yourself.
Hey.
Hey, gorgeous.
He's beautiful.
Is he healthy? -Everything is fine, Dries.
Is he healthy? -Everything is fine, Dries. We have to go. Pack your suitcase. Some clothes and jewelry. Go on.
Why do you want to go? -Just do it.
First you tell me why.
I can't be seen here. -Why not? You did nothing wrong.
Will you tell that mob outside? -Darling...
Will you tell that mob outside? -Darling... Toon and Harry talked to a man in the Marnixstraat and are safe now.
What man? -Some resistance leader. Sander, I believe.
I can't risk it. They think I'm dead and it's best if it stays that way.
And where are we supposed to go?
Dries. -I'll call Verbeek. I have known him for years.
Dries, get a move on.
Hurry up, Dries, goddammit.
Hey, Verbeek, you're still alive.
Bastard.
Filthy traitor. You have betrayed your country. On your knees.
For the Queen.
Of course, we're family now, aren't we?
I'll set up a camp-bed and we'll see for Robbie. Alright?
We won't stay long. -Oh no? Where will we go?
Abroad. -What?
You said he didn't do anything wrong. -I didn't.
You said he didn't do anything wrong. -I didn't. I worked for the SD to help people. But those heroes outside don't care. They'll shoot me.
I worked for the SD to help people. But those heroes outside don't care. They'll shoot me.
Why do we have to go abroad? -Fleeing is confessing guilt.
Talk to that resistance man. Toon says he just wants information.
They explained everything to him and were able to go.
Einthoven asked me to talk to you. He offers you a position at his Security Office.
Don't you see what he's up to? He wants my archive.
Yes, he wants your archive, I know.
I'm starting my own office. -What? By yourself?
Wim, his office will be the official service. Einthoven has connections.
Wim, his office will be the official service. Einthoven has connections. Even with the Royal Family. -The Royal Family.
Even with the Royal Family. -The Royal Family. They were in London during the war.
Use him. Demand that you'll be Head Investigator.
That you'll work independently and keep your archive.
What do you get out of it?
He's offered me a job as well.
I know you think I'm a traitor, but someone can testify to my innocence.
I know you think I'm a traitor, but someone can testify to my innocence. And I'll find her.
And Riphagen?
He got what he deserves.
That was Jan van Liempd, wasn't it? -Yes.
That bastard. -Why?
He's my murderer.
He came to Assen, like a thief in the night, to shoot me.
Because I know too much about him.
He's going to work for Louis Einthoven. -Then Einthoven swallowed his lies.
I'm prepared to tell the truth, about Jan and all those SD informants.
But I'll only tell you.
You'll stay at Frits' house. Nobody will come near you.
Frits? -That's me.
Why must my husband stay? He did nothing wrong.
We'll see about that. -Toon and Harry didn't have to stay.
They didn't have such important information.
Your husband will officially remain dead for now.
Sorry, I thought you could come home. -It doesn't matter, turtledove.
Don't cry. Hey...
Frits.
I don't expect it'll take long.
It'll protect you. Hey honey, come on.
Take off your shoes. -Sure, wise guy.
It's this way.
You can stay here till we're done with you.
Why this room? -It's the only room that can be locked.
Yes? -The woman Riphagen worked with.
Yes? -The woman Riphagen worked with. I'd like to use your archive to find her real name.
No, the archive is mine, remember? -Would you look for it then?
No problem. Submit an official request.
A phone call for you.
Yes, Toon Kuijper speaking.
Toon, it's Riphagen. -Dries?
Dries Riphagen? -I need your help, urgently.
Is this a joke? -No. I have no time to explain.
You have to find a girl for me. Betje Wery. Grab a pen and paper.
I am writing it down. -Betje Wery. Wery with a 'y'.
Jewish girl, late twenties, widowed. Probably in Rotterdam.
During the war she used the name Bella Tuerlings. But her real name is Betje Wery.
Make sure she disappears.
Toon? -Is this really not a joke?
Toon, I mean it.
How long will he stay? -Depends on him.
It may be a month, may be a year. -A year?
No one must know we have him. Einthoven least of all.
He worked for the SD. - He's a storehouse of information.
If we tell Einthoven, he'll be executed within a week.
Why would we trust him? According to Jan he betrayed Gerrit.
Exactly, according to Jan.
Only two people from Gerrit van der Veen's group survived: you and Jan.
And then we were betrayed at Jan's hiding place.
Execution remains an option. First we need to find out the truth.
Interrogation of Bernardus Andreas Riphagen, born September 7, 1909.
Present are Frederik Kerkhoven and Willem Evert Sanders.
You know why you're being interrogated?
You want me to betray people.
I wouldn't put it like that. -I understand.
First question: What do you know about Jan van Liempd?
Jan betrayed Gerrit van der Veen. Unfortunately, I found out too late.
There was nothing I could do.
Mr. Riphagen hands us a photo, taken during Gerrit van der Veen's arrest.
Jan van Liempd is seen with an unknown woman and Willy Lages, head of the SD.
Where did you get that photo? -I had an inside contact.
Did Jan work alone?
I think together with that girl. She also worked for the SD.
I believe she was Jewish. -Bella Tuerlings.
Oh, you know her. -Is that her real name?
That's the name she used then. She probably won't use it anymore.
No, probably not.
Handsome Karel, Halvemaansteeg. Owns stolen Jewish property. Paintings, I believe.
Black Gerrit and Black Bob, both worked for the Gestapo.
Italiaander. Thank you. Gold, jewelry, anything he could get.
Kees Crowbar, as we called him. His real name, Kees van de Bergh.
Maybe the worst of them all. Also worked for the Gestapo.
Kemp, from the cafe on the Amstelstraat. Was an informant of the SD.
Freddy van Nuenen had lists of addresses of Jews in hiding.
I'm looking for a woman. She went by the name of Bella Tuerlings.
Bella... Don't know her.
Think carefully. -Why would I remember a Jew's name?
Could Riphagen just hire informants without you knowing?
Of course not. Everything was documented. And I ran a very tight ship.
You could take it as an example. -But the archive was destroyed.
Not the entire archive. -So where is it?
Why would I help you? I'll be executed anyway.
Maybe something can still be done.
And you can do that? -Do you have a choice?
In the basement.
And her name was Betje.
Her last name I don't know anymore.
We've looked all over Rotterdam. Not a trace.
If she talks, everything will be in vain.
We did all we could. Put Toon on.
Wim, where's the SD archive? -It's being processed.
I want access to it, now.
Reason? -I don't have to give you...
Jan is looking for the real name of an informant, alias Bella Tuerlings.
Why didn't Jan submit an official request? -I did. Waiting time 13 weeks.
It's very busy. A lot of traitors out there. -I'll do it myself.
It's very busy. A lot of traitors out there. -I'll do it myself. No, it's my archive. -We know it's your archive.
No, it's my archive. -We know it's your archive. But the SD archive isn't.
So you've looked everywhere? -It took us two days.
Also on the Hofplein? -We searched the entire Hofplein.
Hofplein was bombed to bits, Toon. You didn't go anywhere.
So what?
You can't expect us to shoot people in peacetime.
We're through with Dries Riphagen. You're on your own.
Get lost.
No one has to hand the archive over. I just want to have a look. Is that okay?
A waste of effort. I've gone through it already.
Riphagen's informant isn't to be found. -According to Lages her name is Betje.
Excuse me?
Her first name is Betje.
Betje is her name.
According to Lages.
And Jan is going through the SD archive on his own right now?
Wasn't it destroyed?
Betje. I'll be damned.
Betje, from Rotterdam. Betje...
Betje Wery, with a 'y'.
And you say Betje and Jan betrayed Gerrit van der Veen?
Yes. You belonged to that group, right? You guys raided the State Printing House.
You stole hundreds of ID cards. -Ten thousand.
Ten thousand? Gee. That must have been worth a fortune.
Ten thousand? Gee. That must have been worth a fortune. What happened to it?
I have no idea. -Well, I do.
That guy won't stop at anything.
If he finds Betje Wery before we do, he will kill her.
She's the last witness.
And? -Both her parents survived.
They are in Rotterdam. Here's the address.
You think we'll find her? -You'll see for yourself.
What? And Dries? -He can't go anywhere.
Elisabeth Wery.
Widow of Frans Tuerlings.
And if I find her? -She can't go to the Security Office.
And if I find her? -She can't go to the Security Office. We have to keep her away from Jan.
Do you trust Dries more than Jan? -I don't trust anyone.
But Dries cooperates and Jan just keeps thwarting us.
Elisabeth, 'Betje'.
If I can unmask Jan together with Betje Wery...
Einthoven will fall too, and then I'll be the boss.
Then we'll go to the very bottom.
A new Netherlands, Frits. It's just around the corner.
She was taken away an hour ago. -What, by whom?
She knew him. I don't know why you're looking for my daughter...
but let me say one thing:
Without her we'd have been sent to Poland. We'd have been dead now.
Whatever she did, she did it for us.
The man who came for her was also from the Security Office.
Have a seat.
I have to make a phone call.
Kerkhoven.
You don't know me. You've never seen or talked to me.
Blame everything on Jan. -Alright.
If you mention my name, I'll shoot your parents.
You betrayed the group, together with Jan van Liempd. Understood?
Understood? I have nothing to lose.
Yes, alright. See you shortly.
Are you alright?
My boss is on his way.
Someone picked up Betje Wery in Rotterdam.
They're waiting for you.
Jan, I was just saying that Mrs. Wery has a story...
that will interest you and Mr. Einthoven.
I want to interrogate her. This is my case.
One suspect interrogating the other?
Excuse me?
A reliable source has told me that Gerrit van der Veen was betrayed by Betje Wery...
A reliable source has told me that Gerrit van der Veen was betrayed by Betje Wery... together with Jan van Liempd.
No, she worked together with Riphagen. I'm not a traitor. -Mrs. Wery claims otherwise.
I'm not a traitor. -Mrs. Wery claims otherwise.
It's impossible. -We'll have to see.
Did they treat you well? -Yes, thank you.
You were registered with the SD as informant number 196.
Is that correct? -That's correct.
As such you infiltrated Gerrit van der Veen's group.
I knew Charly Hartog.
How did you find her? -He took me along to the Stadhouderskade.
That's my job.
I was fond of them. They were my friends.
Jan as well.
But on June 30, 1944, four friends of the group were arrested in your apartment.
One of them was killed. -That's correct.
Were you involved in this arrest as an informant?
Did you pass on information?
To whom?
Did you work together with Andries Riphagen? Or with Jan van Liempd?
I didn't work together with anyone.
I passed the time and location on to Lages and that was it.
I received 1000 guilders for it and...
to me that was worth it.
You know that if you acted alone, you'll be hanged.
Maybe I deserve it.
Why is she doing this? -She's protecting you.
You were involved with her. -No, she's protecting Dries.
Why would she protect a dead man?
She's protecting you. -Betje Wery. How did you know her name?
She's protecting you. -Betje Wery. How did you know her name? How did you know you had to look in Rotterdam?
I told you, it's my job.
Only Dries knew her real name. - What are you driving at?
He's still alive.
You talked to him. -You don't know what you're saying.
Yes, that goes without saying. I understand.
Yes, got it. Bye.
And?
Wim is still working on it.
Has Jan been arrested or not?
Wim can't come here for now. He's afraid he's being followed.
He... He has to avoid this location for the time being.
How long? -A week.
So now it'll take another week. Dries.
He told you everything he knows. Dries is innocent.
I want to go on with our life. The war is over.
Frits, does Jan know I'm still alive?
Can I trust you? -Yes.
No, can I trust you?
Yes.
I have a safe in Luxembourg.
The people I saved entrusted their valuables to me.
Why did you never tell this? -I didn't know if I could trust you.
It's not just some earrings.
Greet, what's in those lockers? -It really concerns a lot of money.
And that's what Jan is after. It's not about me.
It's about those innocent people's money.
If Jan finds me, those people won't ever get it back.
It will all have been in vain. I can't let that happen.
Wim won't be here for a week.
I can't just let you go. -Then you go in my place.
Go to Luxembourg. I'll pay you for it.
I can't... I've never been there.
Greet, will you go to Luxembourg with Frits?
Are you going to follow me day and night? -You know where he is.
You've seen his death certificate. You shot him yourself.
What will happen if Einthoven finds out he's still alive...
and you knew all along where he was?
I'll find him. And then you'll hang.
Sanders. -Wim, Dries speaking.
I'm at the Club. I needed a change. If that's a problem, you know where I am.
Do you have money on you?
Where's Frits? -No idea. Maybe off to see a girl.
I was just stretching my legs, okay? Getting used to life as a free man.
I'll be free soon, won't I?
So Betje didn't mention Jan's name? And Einthoven?
He doesn't know I'm here, does he?
Put that thing away. You can't kill me.
I have to. -Oh yeah?
Then you'll have to kill my wife too. And Harry Rond.
And Lame Toon. And ten others who know I'm here.
What did you think, dirty little Communist? Shall I tell you something, Wim Sanders?
I played you like a violin.
Betje Wery did exactly what I told her. I betrayed Gerrit van der Veen's group.
It was me. I was there when they shot Badrian's brains out.
You're lying. -Yes, I've been lying to you for weeks.
You're lying. -Yes, I've been lying to you for weeks. But you didn't realize it, did you? Einthoven is laughing his butt off.
But you didn't realize it, did you? Einthoven is laughing his butt off. You'll be the laughing stock of the office.
And to think of all those people I had you round up and execute.
Go ahead, shoot me.
No, I'm not going to kill you.
You're going to help me.
Will you give Dries the suitcase? This is also part of it.
Why are you protecting Riphagen?
Have you seen him?
Frits, your brother has a hearse, right? -Why?
Call him. Tell him Wim will pick it up. And I want a coffin inside.
What's going on? -I'm crossing the border tonight.
Wim?
Call your brother.
Where is he? Did he threaten you?
Frits, he's never been here.
If I talk, he'll kill my family after all.
Tell me where he is. -He won't stop.
When I find him, I'll make him talk.
He's playing everyone.
I'll get him to confess he forced you.
He has to die.
Otherwise I won't talk.
I promise.
He's at Kerkhoven's.
I'll call you when I'm across the border.
I have two more names for you: Harry Rond and Lame Toon Kuijper.
Pimping and laundering. Addresses... on the kitchen table.
Where is he? -You're too late.
He's been here for months, and you helped him.
He betrayed Gerrit.
Where is he? -He's crossing the border tonight.
Which border?
I don't know.
All borders must be closed.
German and Belgian. -Jesus, what a mess.
If we find Riphagen, you'll have Sanders and his archive.
No. -What?
I'd have to admit that my own people deceived me.
I can't get Sanders without incriminating myself.
And Riphagen? -He's officially dead.
If he's smart, he'll stay dead. -Then Betje Wery will pay for it.
We have a confession. It's a clear-cut case.
Betje Wery is guilty. -Is that justice?
Then what are we here for? -The Russians are halfway Germany.
That's what we're here for.
I...
He said he helped these people.
We're too late.
I have to make sure Greetje is ready to leave.
But I want her to stay.
She didn't go with him? -He'll call when he's across the border.
I have to bring her.
Jan.
Dries has escaped. With all the goods.
You want me to betray my husband. -If he's innocent he has nothing to fear.
He only helped people. -Oh yeah? These people?
Yes. He saved their belongings and will return it when they come back.
Those people won't come back. They were sent to Poland to be gassed.
That's not Dries' fault.
This is Esther Schaap. Dries protected her.
This is Esther Schaap. Dries protected her. As long as she turned all her friends over to him.
When no one was left, she had to disappear.
I don't believe it. -She killed herself right in front of me.
Here.
Nice necklace you've got.
Hey, sweetheart. I'm glad to hear your voice.
I'm here. I made it. Sorry, it suddenly went so fast.
I'm glad you were able to get everything back from Luxembourg.
Are you ready to go? -Dries...
We have no choice. We'll be back again in a few years.
Remember that necklace you gave me? -Yes, what about it?
It's in one of the photos from your safe. -Oh, you have those photos. Good.
That woman gave me that necklace when I helped her flee from the SD.
So she's still alive? -Yes, absolutely.
She's safe and well in Antwerp. I drove her there myself.
Are you still there? -Yes, I'm here.
Grab a pen and paper. You have to cross the border at Kalmhoutse Heide.
Follow the signs to the monastery. I'm sleeping among the friars tonight.
Darling, tomorrow we'll go on together.
The three of us. Yes? -Yes.
Really. -We'll go on together.
And turtledove, I love you, you know.
And I love you, Dries Riphagen.
I know where he is. -He's still alive?
In Belgium.
The war is over. -Someone has to stop him.
Will it be over then?
Hey!
Jan. -Dries.
Where's Greetje? -In Amsterdam.
Are you detaining her?
No, I showed Greetje who you really are.
You shouldn't have lied to her.
Stop right there, Dries. This is the end point.
Do you have a light?
On your knees.
On your knees. -You'll get 20 years for murder.
On your knees.
Jan, this is exactly what they want you to do. Einthoven and Sanders.
Jan, this is exactly what they want you to do. Einthoven and Sanders. That you kill me so I take all secrets to the grave.
Shut up.
No, I won't shut up. I can tell them things.
About Sanders. How I hoodwinked him.
How he helped me escape. The people he killed.
I can tell them about all the Jews I betrayed.
I don't want anything from you. On your knees.
I can tell them about Betje.
I'll tell them that I forced her to betray Gerrit van der Veen.
That it was my idea.
She's innocent.
If you shoot me, she will be hanged. No one will believe her anymore.
I'm the only one who can save her.
Maybe it's better this way. I'll be able to watch Robbie grow up.
I wouldn't count on it.
Why not? -I left Greetje with Frits Kerkhoven.
So? -I think Frits may grab his chance.
Which father would Greetje rather have for Robbie?
I know that's a stupid question.
I don't think you're doing very well right now.
But can you write for me so that we can talk a little bit,
or do you not have the energy right now?
Do you wanna write?
Okay.
[Dr. Zitter] Okay, I have a better idea. What's the first letter?
-[doctor] T. -[Dr. Zitter] T.
No.
[Dr. Zitter] Okay.
Start one more time. Start one more time.
I know, I'm sorry.
I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
Can we try with these letters, okay?
I.
N? No.
I'm...
Say it again.
Is it about the tube? Is this about the breathing tube?
Do you want the breathing tube out? Do you want me to take it away?
You want it out? What if you die if I take it out?
This is Violeta calling from intensive care
at Highland Hospital in the ICU.
14:19 was the time of death, yes.
Sixty-six-year-old gentleman, history of HIV.
Past medical history of dementia, COPD.
Probably substance abuse, cocaine and currently methadone.
[Dr. Zitter] Who is this? Call the crash cart in.
-[doctor 1] Let's get an EKG-- -[doctor 2] EKG.
[doctor] I just think we should have the conversation
about, "What did he really want?" 'Cause if he didn't want even antibiotics,
now we're putting a ventric in and then we're gonna obligate him to a shunt
if he makes it out of this.
[nurse] Best case scenario for the guy is probably grim,
but he's also 30 years old
and we don't know how much of his decision-making
is attributable to medical illness, it's impossible to state.
So, I'm uncomfortable with making the decision now to let him die.
[Dr. Zitter] Here's the reality.
We're all gonna die, everyone standing in this room is gonna die one day
and it's good to have a little bit of a say in how.
I know, I know, the straps. I know, sweetheart.
It's frustrating, I know. [softly] I know.
[Gordon] It's all good. Okay, okay, okay. I know.
The reason the straps are on is so that you don't pull anything out. It's to protect you.
is so that you don't pull anything out. It's to protect you.
Okay?
Mmm-hmm.
I know it's hard to communicate, huh? Mmm-hmm.
You want me to... you want me...
you want me to help you get your legs out?
I... I can't, you know that.
You wanna get up?
I can't get you up.
Okay, if that's what you're trying to tell me, I understand.
Okay? I know you want me to get you out.
Okay. All right.
I would say that if her muscle strength doesn't improve...
If her muscle strength improves, then, you know, -that eliminates a lot of problems for us. -All right.
But if this represents a decline in the overall disease state...
Or... or just even stays the same.
Stays the same.
Then she will require some sort of machine to help her breathe.
[Gordon stutters] Is there any other option,
or is it really this ventilator system or that, are those the...
are those the only two options?
[Dr. Bhargava] The tracheostomy is...
is really the main form of...
of intervention we could offer, if she were willing to accept, you know, being attached to a machine.
if she were willing to accept, you know, being attached to a machine.
Is that something that she would want for herself,
that she would be open to?
Is it just to...
just to kinda keep her in limbo?
Is it... I mean, that's...
that's pretty much it?
You're right, it's a form of limbo.
[Gordon] I need ya to help me get beyond this.
I have to be right for her.
I'll be right for you.
So she showed up at the hospital -in the car and then-- -[doctor 1] No. She was in the car.
-in the car and then-- -[doctor 1] No. She was in the car.
They were trying to bring her to the hospital and she arrested.
Sixteen to 26 minutes from arrest to return of circulation.
[Dr. Zitter] Sixteen to 26 minutes of down time.
-[doctor 2] Mmm-hmm. -[doctor 1] Mmm-hmm.
Was that the family doing CPR in the car?
-[doctor 1] Yes. -Okay.
You woke up in the morning and said, "Mom, I'm taking you to hospital."
[Tama] She didn't want me to call the ambulance, 'cause she... thought about that $2,000.
-You know, so... -[Dr. Zitter] Oh... she kinda was like-- [Dr. Zitter] So she finally said, "I'm going in."
-Not in the best financial situation. -Oh, sorry.
Yeah, so then she jumps in my husband's car, we're driving off,
and she said, "Guys, hurry up," and then she went... [gags]
And then we had to pull her out the car and start to do
the resuscitation with the CPR. [Dr. Zitter] That must have been terrifying.
Oh, it was beyond terrifying.
I must say, that's impressive, and your mom's lucky.
And now where are we? Tell me what you understand.
-[Tama] They want big responses. -[Dr. Zitter] Yep.
[Tama] I'm checking for any response that I can get.
When I first came in here, I could touch her hand,
I could do anything, she wasn't gonna open her eyes.
-Okay, now I come in, I touch her hand... -Yeah. her eyes went wide open.
Selena? Can you squeeze my hand?
Squeeze my hand.
Squeeze my hand, honey.
Okay.
Would I like to see her really looking at me
and kind of following commands?
-[Tama] Yes. Mmm-hmm. -Yes, I would.
Am I concerned a little bit still
that maybe we won't get a whole lot more? I am.
To me, the whole situation is miraculous in and of itself
-Yeah. -So I'm looking for another miracle.
[Dr. Zitter] You know, this is clearly a loving daughter who will do anything for her mother, and she's really wrestling and struggling,
for her mother, and she's really wrestling and struggling,
and sometimes it's just too much for one person to make a decision like this
-on her own. -[brother 1] Yeah.
I think you're very sensitive uncles, -and I think she's lucky. -Mmm-hmm.
[brother 2] That's all she has, is her mother. She's an only child.
[Dr. Zitter] I know. So it's really, really difficult.
[brother 1] Is there any definitive test
-that will tell you that absolutely, -[Dr. Zitter] Mmm-hmm.
positively, there is no way for her to recover under any circumstance?
[Dr. Zitter] She won't wake up from this in a meaningful way, and I don't know
if that's been clearly stated to you, if you've heard that.
[brother 1] That's my first time hearing that.
[Dr. Zitter] Every day, people with very poor
neurologic prognoses are attached permanently to machines,
and, unfortunately, it's very hard,
emotionally, for us physicians when we feel that we're taking a body and we're just...
we're keeping it alive when it's not really the person.
[brother 3] But God have proven to me,
miracles are miracles, and we askin' him for one.
[softly] Okay.
If I had to make the decision for myself,
take me off and if I breathe on my own, then that's fine, that's God's will.
If I don't breathe on my own, fine, -then that's God's will. -Mmm-hmm.
[brother 4] You know, 'cause I believe in prayer...
but I believe in nature taking its course, too.
It's tough. It's tough.
I would hate not to do the trache...
[voice breaking] because that's my... my sister.
But I--
Mmm-mmm. It's too much for me.
[Dr. Zitter, softly] I understand.
I wanna try everything I can.
[sobbing] I just wanna try whatever, it doesn't make any difference.
[Dr. Zitter] Well, there are very few things that you can be 100% certain about.
And you risk hurting people if you're wrong.
My concern is if we continue to draw it out
-Hmm. -and we continue to do more and more things to her,
-we're gonna cause more suffering -Sure.
without likely benefit.
[Dr. Zitter] When I was a young attending,
I had been asked to go put a large catheter in someone's neck.
She was dying.
And I went into lifesaving mode.
Right before we were getting ready, I look up and I see
this nurse in the doorway,
and she looked at me, locking eyes with me and said,
"Call the police. They're torturing a patient in the ICU."
My heart dropped into my stomach, and I realized, "Oh, my gosh, she's right.
What I'm doing right now is not gonna help her.
It's not gonna get rid of this disease that's killing her."
And I don't wanna do that anymore.
-Living homeless, debilitated, -[Dr. Bhargava] Mmm-hmm. -failure to thrive-- -Mmm-hmm.
He's been institutionalized for a long time now.
We're just keeping a close eye on you
-to make sure you're feelin' all right. -[patient] Okay.
[Dr. Zitter] Do you have any family members or anybody
that is part of your family?
No, that I know... [stutters]
[Dr. Zitter] Oh, I'm sorry?
Not that I know of.
Mmm. Well, we'll help take care of you then.
[patient] Okay.
If we're gonna treat, the treatment is the ventriculostomy.
-And what would-- -So if you guys don't agree with that
and if you tell me, "Nope, this guy would want everything done.
He'd want to live, even if he was vegetative on a ventilator for his life
with a feeding tube," then the treatment is to put the ventric in.
I don't feel that he is able to make those decisions,
and I don't feel that we have someone who can really make them for him.
We don't really know his prognosis.
We don't know if he ever had capacity for decision making,
so the ethics of this are murky.
Do you like to make your own medical decisions, or do you like the doctors to make the decisions for you?
or do you like the doctors to make the decisions for you?
If we don't get clear, we're not gonna give him a chance to opt out,
and we're just gonna do what we do with all of our patients,
which is just plug them in and let them die on machine.
How would you feel if you... were not getting better on a breathing machine?
Then I don't wanna be on a breathing machine.
-I don't wanna suffer... -Okay.
with that machine.
I mean, it's his decision,
but he know as well as I know...
I don't wanna see him go,
you know, 'cause I haven't lost a parent yet, you know, so I wouldn't know how it feels.
You know, so...
We're wondering if maybe this is the point where we kind of need to stop,
decide, and maybe have--
Put the tube in, kinda put you to sleep and have the machine help breathe for you.
[muffled] How do you make that choice?
[Dr. Zitter] It's a-- It's some-- For some people it's an easy choice, and for some people it's not.
-I'm 38. -I know you're 38.
-A new grandma. -I know.
I don't wanna give my life away yet.
[Dr. Zitter] I know.
[Gordon] You look better today, you know that?
You look better. You look like you got a little bit of a fight in you today. Mmm-hmm.
Good. So yeah, that's right.
I'll make you laugh as many times as I can.
That's the deal.
All good. All good.
[Gordon whispering] Her... organs are failing.
Right now, the only thing that's functioning is that ventilator.
It's keeping her--
'Cause she's got saliva, she can choke at any time.
She's been throwing up.
So that's all part of it, her muscles in her lungs are stopping.
[Dr. Zitter] Hey, Donna?
Um, we're gonna just step out.
I'm gonna go talk to your family for a little bit...
and then we're gonna come back and talk with you, if you're up for it.
[Dr. Zitter] Okay.
Things that're happening in her body right now are all the kinds of things
that you would expect with end-stage myotonic dystrophy.
And we are very concerned
that... that we may not be able to get her breathing on her own again.
And what that means, looking forward, is... attachment to a breathing machine...
in what's called a ventilator facility.
The other approach is to say we're gonna take her off the breathing machine and hope that she lives for a long period of time.
and hope that she lives for a long period of time.
It probably wouldn't be, I'm gonna guess more than a day or two.
Maybe, you know, I've been surprised, sometimes it's longer...
and really focus on her comfort and her calmness,
and her being with her family and let her pass naturally.
[sniffs] Knowing at some point you gotta get to that reality,
you know, but you can always put it off, and now it's here.
I can't tell if she is alert enough
to have this conversation.
When I talked to her this morning a little bit,
I didn't feel that she... was really understanding.
[stutters] And that's-- At that point, if that's the way it is,
and if things don't... if she doesn't perk up and really become herself,
that's when surrogate people have to step in and make those choices.
[voice breaking] I wanna make sure that she knows that--
that we've explored all the options.
I told her I'd never let the doctors stop. -Mmm-hmm. -[sniffs]
I would never let 'em stop,
but when I told 'em to stop, she had to trust me.
[Dr. Bhargava] And I'm with you. I don't want her to suffer
or have anything prolonged or painful.
I just want them to make a decision with the best information available.
And I feel that as of right now, as of today,
we haven't had, you know, an expert in her disorder weigh in on what her prognosis might be.
weigh in on what her prognosis might be. -My biggest-- But I was saying-- -My biggest fear is telling a family
-My biggest-- But I was saying-- -My biggest fear is telling a family
that there's zero hope when maybe there is.
I sat with that family for an hour and a half.
-Yeah. -And I pulled every little bit of information about her
-Right. -and I found that she'd had conversations with her brother
that she had initiated several times -Yeah. -about not wanting to be on a machine,
not wanting to be kept alive on machines.
Part of me is, like, death is so final that if we sort of...
-I know. -If we make the decision not to go down that route...
I know, I know. -Yeah. -This is--
And frankly, we're not even making the decision, they are,
-but it is... -Well, that's what I'm trying to do, -guided by what we say. So... -I'm trying to put it on-- I just--
-guided by what we say. So... -I'm trying to put it on-- I just--
I don't know. [stuttering] This is a conundrum for me, too.
Hi, Mama. Mama?
Mama, I know you're in there. Mama?
[brother 1] Selena.
[brother 2] Hey, sis.
Hey.
Hey, sis.
You got your brothers here with you. We're here.
Hey.
Selena, this is what I'm seeing.
That's the first time she's jumpin'.
[brother 2] I know you trying to say something, huh?
[brother 3] Yeah, that's all right. [brother 2] You trying to say somethin', ain't you?
[brother 3] Yes, Lord. Come on now, y'all, look at her. She opened her eyes and move 'em.
Come on now, y'all, look at her. She opened her eyes and move 'em.
-[brother 3] Yes, God. -Hey, sis.
-[brother 3] We love you, Selena. -[brother 2] Yes, we do.
[brother 3] We not gonna leave you by yourself.
[brother 2] We got ya, baby girl.
[brother 4] We just ask that you touch her, Father God.
You know the doctors say one thing, Father God, but we know that you the doctor of doctors, Father God,
but we know that you the doctor of doctors, Father God, -and the Lord of Lords, Father God. -[brother 3] In Jesus' name.
-and the Lord of Lords, Father God. -[brother 3] In Jesus' name.
[brother 4] In Jesus' name, we pray this prayer. Amen.
[brothers] Amen.
[Tama] You know, even though my mom may be in this situation,
it would feel like murder to pull her life support.
That's what it would feel like to me.
We're gonna support you through this. This is
-very painful for you and your family. -Absolutely.
And we're gonna, you know...
We're all, I mean, everyone hopes for a miracle,
I'm hoping for a miracle.
I feel like, maybe as a doctor, being as smart and being as knowledgeable
and being in-- inside of medical journals,
you know, it... it can dwindle the optimism a little bit.
I'm just trying to help you make a decision that's right for your mom,
-Absolutely. -and that's why I want you to be able to think through this as clearly as you can,
to think through this as clearly as you can,
just thinking about what would my mom have said if the doctors were all saying,
"We don't think she'll wake up."
My mom already made her decision, and that's how come her heart is still beating.
She can go at any time,
but she knows to stay here because she loves me.
-If I were to pull that life support -Okay. -there would be no me. -Okay.
Okay.
[Gordon] Is that how?
[Dr. Bhargava] How long?
Okay, how long...
That that tube is gonna stay in.
I wish I could tell, ma'am.
I can't tell because, right now, you are breathing independently...
but the machine is providing you some help right now.
I think the hard part here is just... we don't know how her body is gonna go.
If this-- We could say for sure you can spend two months
with a trache and a feeding tube and then you'll get better,
then most people would probably say, "Sure, sign me up."
-Exactly. -But if it's,
"I'm gonna be going to this next step and I have no idea
-whether I'm ever gonna get off of it," -I know. -that's a harder decision to make. -[grunts softly]
[Gordon] We know you wanna get out of these straps, right, sweetheart?
We can all tell you've been strugglin'.
So now we wanted to talk about where do we go from here?
What do you wanna do? Okay?
If... if you can breathe on your own, they can take the tubes out.
But if, for some reason, you can't breathe...
then our options are do the trache... down into your throat...
and that would hook you up to a machine.
And we don't know if that's what you want.
No? You don't want a feeding tube and the...
and the tracheotomy?
No.
No matter what.
Okay.
[Gordon whispering] You did the right thing, okay?
I'm gonna do the right thing. Just trust me.
-Do you trust me? -Mmm.
I trust you, okay?
I'll take care of her.
You know that. That's my promise, right?
I got her.
You don't worry about her. That's one thing you don't worry about.
Okay? I got her.
Okay.
And I'm so sorry that you're gonna be...
[daughter sobbing] Don't. You have nothing to be sorry about, Mom. Stop.
You can't-- You don't make these decisions, things happen. It's okay.
[patient sobs] No...
Things happen.
Everybody loves you so much.
You got so much love, so much prayers, Mom.
Keep fighting. Keep doin' it. Keep doin' what you doin'.
-[weakly] Tell everybody... -Hmm?
Thanks, Lyle. ...in this Handsome mystery movie.
Enjoy this exciting multiplatform event.
[narrator] Tonight, "A Lil' Dab'll Do Ya."
As a detective, there's no greater skill that you can hone than your intuition.
I mean, if you can't trust your gut,
you might as well be in parking enforcement.
-Yeah, I mean, go be a meter maid. -A meter man.
Very good, Detective Rice. Very good.
You're looking at everything from all angles.
All right, let's take a look at the board, shall we?
What do you see? What does your gut tell you?
I'm looking at the boner.
That man's dick is hard.
I think it's the classic Margaritaville theory.
The theory that states if a middle-aged man has too much laid-back fun, he ceases to exist.
if a middle-aged man has too much laid-back fun, he ceases to exist.
Yeah. Anyone else got a theory?
Detective Burt Jerpis.
I know, Detective Jerpis. I hired you.
We see this guy here, sure. But is that the whole story?
How do we know that this guy doesn't work at a rental car agency at the airport, all right?
And it's his boss' last day. Maybe that guy's name is Roger.
Roger loves to golf. So he and all of his coworkers dress up like Roger.
Golfers. And you wanna know what Roger always wanted to do?
Skydivings. So they all get in the car, they go over to the airstrip and they get in the skydivings plane.
They get up to 20,000 feet and they get into an argument. Maybe it's about a girl,
maybe it's about who had the right recipe for the veggie chili.
We don't know the answer to that yet.
But then argument breaks out and this guy gets strangled.
He gets thrown out of that skydivings plane.
Guess where he lands, of all places?
-Golf course. Case closed. -You know what?
Let's not trust our guts.
I'm sorry. [sighs] That's not the boner of a man still livin'.
Handsome! We need to talk now.
Yes, Lieutenant.
Yes.
You didn't fill out your retirement papers.
-You pulled me out here for that? -I thought you should know.
Of course I know. I'm the one who didn't fill 'em out. Don't try to complicate things with your sweet talk.
Sweet talk?
You poor, innocent kid. You just don't get it, do you?
No.
-What were we talking about? -I have no idea.
Believe me, I'll remember. And when I do, you'll know, missy.
Connie!
I just remembered what it was. [chuckles]
We have so many leftovers from Waikiki Wednesday,
I think you should take these home.
No, no, no, I'm good. I'm trying to watch my weight--
Oh, no, you don't understand.
-They've got thick frosting... -Yeah.
-...smeared just the way you like it. -Yeah.
And they're shaped like beach balls that just bounce right into your mouth,
bounce right into your belly and bounce right outta your butt. Hmm?
I'm, uh... There's no way I'm taking these, uh, home with me. [Tucker] Hmm? Hmm?
Hello, Candy. Hello.
These are not mine. That's all I'm saying. Don't ask.
Yeah. Every day's a tough one.
Every day's a tough one, but it's so much better when I come home to you.
I love you. I love you so much. You're so pretty.
Do me a favor. See those cookies?
Don't let me eat 'em.
You hear me? If I go near those cookies, you knock my ass over, all right?
'Cause you're capable of doing that, you big fucker.
Yeah, let's go for a walk.
[Durante] Hey, Handsome, don't pretend I'm not here.
Durante.
Stop letting your dog shit on my lawn.
-Not hers. Don't recognize it. -Of course it's hers.
It looks like her, curled up as a piece of shit.
Okay, look at her.
She's not even looking at it. She knows it's not hers.
There's no caginess about her. No recognition whatsoever.
-She's just playing it cool. -Look into her eyes.
They're pools of pure tranquility.
You think you can read a perp better than me? You've lost it. You know that, right? Happens to the best of us.
You used to investigate real crime.
Now you're chasing around cheating husbands,
hanging outside of crappy motels in Venice.
You know what makes this country great?
It's not that everybody's cheating on their spouses, because they're not.
It's that everyone unconsciously feels cheated.
That's right. By the government, by their bosses, by Whole Foods.
And then they transfer that suspicion onto their loved one.
And it's that very feeling that keeps me in such great business.
I'm thinking of buying a Ferrari.
Well, I just put 50 bucks into my IRA account.
And in lieu of getting a Tesla, I'm gonna retire soon-ish.
-That job really wears on a person. -It does. It really does.
-Hey, uh, you got new neighbors. -On the other side? When?
Are you not paying attention? A couple of weeks ago.
Renters. Looks like a single mom and her kid.
-Maybe the kid took the dump. -I just saw nervous fidgeting.
That was nervous fidgeting. That's definitely nervous fidgeting.
Of course Candy's fidgeting. You know where I found her?
I found her abandoned in a foreclosed house in Burbank.
Buona sera, Handsome.
Ah... Buona sera, Esta.
Hmm. Why are we wishing each other good evening?
It is just... an okay sera. Just okay.
[stutters] Well, it just started. It could get a lot better.
Mmm. I don't think so.
I still don't know what she sees in you. I'm guessing she likes to be depressed.
I could say the same thing about your dog.
Yeah. We're gonna go back on our walk.
[Durante] I get it. Your dog has had a tragic history.
But don't let her shit on my lawn.
[sighs] Go.
-Can I help you? -Hi. I'm your neighbor, Gene Handsome.
I thought I'd come and welcome you to the neighborhood
by, uh, bringing you and your daughter some cookies.
-I'm the babysitter. -Oh! Okay, well, then,
-you can take the cookies. -I'm not opening this door.
I commend your cautiousness. You seem like an A-plus sitter.
But, as I said, I live next door. I am an officer of the law.
So you really got nothin' to worry about.
I'm sorry. I'm not comfortable opening the door. You think I'm a creep. [chuckles]
Oh, my God, that's the last thing I wanna be, is a creep.
No, no, no, that's not my intention. That's not who I am.
I mean, you can go put them on the porch, but I can't say anyone's gonna eat them.
I'm gonna leave them right over here, but you gotta do me a favor.
After I go, please bring in the cookies.
'Cause later tonight, I don't wanna see them out here,
'cause I'm afraid I'll come over and, uh, eat one.
-Wow. -I know. I got a problem, I...
All right, anyhow, take them in. Thank you very much. I'll see you later.
Handsome.
Yeah.
All right, pick me up. [sighs]
I gotta go. I gotta go.
I'll see you later. Make me get up.
-You know what I watched the other night? -[Fleur] Huh? Best movie I've ever seen. I don't know if you saw it. San Andreas.
Best movie I've ever seen. I don't know if you saw it. San Andreas. I love San Andreas. You fuckin' kidding me?
Oh, my God. The Rock? Perfection.
The absurdity? Best absurdity I've ever seen.
Maybe one of the best movies... Easily the best...
What won the Oscar in 2015 that was better than San Andreas?
Best movie ever. And all the time he spent in a boat.
He's in a boat, but he's a helicopter pilot. I loved it.
-I loved it. -I loved it.
What would you do if you had a partner who didn't like how loud you talk?
I don't talk loud. You talk loud.
I don't know who talks louder between us, you or I.
-We both talk very loud... -[chuckling] ...and I don't know which one is the louder talker.
Good morning, everybody.
-Everybody's looking sharp. -What do we got goin' here?
-Holy shit. -What the fuck is this?
[Handsome] I can't believe it. No way.
Fleur... I think I know this girl.
-You do? -Yeah. That's my neighbor's sitter.
I tried giving her cookies yesterday.
-What do you mean, "tried"? -I tried. She wouldn't take them.
She's a very cautious young lady. She wouldn't even open the door.
-She knows the person who did this. -Absolutely.
All right, has anyone else noticed this?
But it looks like her body's put into the shape of the Star of David.
-Oh, man. -[Dino] Jesus.
Jesus.
Jesus.
Sir, can I quit the force forever, please?
-You wanna quit the force? -Yeah.
Why?
'Cause we're all sitting here casually,
talking about this chopped up woman in this yard, and it's disgusting.
We're not casually talking about the lady. We're trying to figure out who did this.
-Sir, I have a theory. -You do? What do you got?
Suicide.
-That's it? -That's it.
-I deduce that that's stupid. -Hey, easy. We're all trying here.
Sorry, Detective Burt Jerpis, sir.
I know, Jerpis. Go ahead. What do you got?
This is a drive-by, plain and simple.
-How do you get that? -[Jerpis] I'll show you, sir.
Our victim was out for a walk. A leisurely, late night walk.
Along comes our perp, driving a late '90s Honda Accord, purple...
That's my gut feeling. Then this punk... [chuckles] and that's what he is,
takes out a gun, shoots our victim. What's on the gun?
A silencer. Why is there a silencer? To keep things quiet.
Then, to cover his tracks...
he chops the body up into these pieces
and arranges them into this religious symbol.
-Case closed. -[Handsome] No, not case closed.
We don't have a bullet wound, and we don't have a killer.
-That's why you're the boss. -All right, who's the king of the castle?
The house belongs to Talbert Bacorn.
-The actor? -Yeah, yeah. I'd bend him over. [sniffles]
Uh, and then what? What do you mean? I'd just bend him over. Eat a little popcorn out his ass.
What do you mean? I'd just bend him over. Eat a little popcorn out his ass.
-Okay, I'll do the interview with Bacorn. -Mmm-hmm.
-Okay. What about me? -You take care of that. Ah.
Guys, on the right is the home of Talbert Bacorn,
the star of Rainbow Squad.
-Do what you gotta do. -[snaps fingers] Done.
I'm... I'm freaking out!
[Handsome] Of course you're freaking out. There's a crime scene in your front yard.
Okay. Do you think someone is... is threatening me?
Do you think they're trying to send me a message? What do you think that message is?
-Do you think PETA is trying to ambush me? -PETA?
[grunts] I wore suede pants at my première.
[stammers] Well, I don't think that's really their style.
Why don't you just sit down and breathe?
Do breathing exercises?
No, not formally. Just sit down, kick back, breathe.
All right, let's go. Keep it moving. There's nothing to see here.
They want to know if that's a decapitated body on Mr. Talbert's lawn.
No.
[in Japanese] She thinks we're stupid because we don't speak English.
Why would she assume we don't speak English?
Because we're a bus full of tourists from Japan who don't speak English.
Is the body arranged carefully in the shape of a Star of David?
[in English] Is the body carefully arranged in the shape of a Star of David?
Unequivocally no.
[in Japanese] What's a Star of David?
It's a symbol for Judaism.
Rabbi?
The Magen David is said to symbolize the shape of King David's shield,
but there is really no support for that claim in any early rabbinic literature.
In my opinion.
Tell me about last night. What did you see? What happened?
You may have saw or heard something that you're not even aware of.
Ah, so true. An actor's senses are so finely attuned.
Like a detective's.
Probably a little better than a detective's,
but a little worse than a blind man whose fingertips are so sensitive,
he can make words out of bumps.
Back to last night...
-What went on? -Last night, last night...
Well... [sighs] I pet sit for my next-door neighbor, so I went next door and fed the dog.
-You pet sit? -I do.
Are you close with the neighbor? You love dogs?
I seize any opportunity to add to my actor's toolbox.
Should I have the opportunity to play a pet sitter in some future project,
I know how they'll feel.
That's a real dedication to your craft.
It's my life.
When you were over there, did you see anybody walkin' around, coming, going?
No, nothing. It was all quiet. Not a creature was stirring on my lawn.
Well, I really don't think the victim would've been stirring.
So you come back from your neighbor's. You're home. What next?
Well... [sighs] I got undressed for bed, and I watched my movie!
Yes, it was on cable. [laughs] It's an old movie of mine from 1985.
Patty-Cake. I played Emil, the baker man's illegitimate son.
-I think I remember that one. -Mmm. [inhales sharply]
It's an early work, but underrated.
The scene where I'm crying and chanting, "Patty-cake, patty-cake."
I hold up my little hands for my father to clap them,
and he rejects me.
So, you're watching the movie. Did you hear anything?
No.
Okay.
Uh, if you think of anything else, please give me a call.
Do not text me. I don't enjoy it.
So you'll send me a special police detail for my protection?
We're gonna keep an eye on things. Don't worry.
Oh, thank you. I'm used to a lot of attention.
You do know it's the ex-boyfriend, don't you?
-Lieutenant Kenda. -Detective Handsome.
Do not worry. I've got all the angles covered.
It's always the ex-boyfriend.
It's the old, "If I can't have you, no one will have you."
-You see chopped up bodies a lot? -Not a lot, but I've seen them.
You know what that says?
"To kill you is not enough. I want to punish you."
Very personal. Very close.
-Have you been stretching like I said? -Occasionally.
You need to do it more than occasionally. Limbers you up.
Hey!
Oh, shit. Sorry, I thought you were my sitter.
Yeah, about that... I'm, uh, Gene Handsome, detective with the LAPD
and, coincidentally, your next door neighbor.
-Oh, hi. Nice to meet you. -Hi.
-Oh, shit. Did Heather get arrested? -Why would you say that?
[sighs] Sticky fingers. Yeah, she's stolen a few of my going-out tops,
but it's really hard to find a good sitter.
Well, I've got some bad news.
This is so brutal. And then to get chopped up like that?
-Yeah. It's tough. -Oh, my God. Poor Heather.
It's terrible. And, uh, what was your relationship with her?
Was she close to you guys? Was she like family?
She... she was the babysitter. But, you know, nice.
She was fine.
-Oh, hey, honey. -Hi there.
Uh, this is my daughter, Carys. Carys, this is Detective Handsome.
Did you overhear everything that happened? [Carys] Mmm-hmm.
The angels came and took Miss Heather to hell.
[chuckling] I don't know where she gets that stuff.
-Kids. -Oh, shit!
I'm so late for work and I'm out of sick days.
-What time do you work till? -One o'clock. Fridays are my half-day.
I'll watch her.
-Wait, are you serious? -I'm totally serious.
I've got some questions to ask you. Uh, we can get back to that as soon as you come back.
-Great. Thank you so much. -Yeah. Sure.
-That's great. You're fine. -Yeah. Yeah.
-[Carys sighs] -You're great. Yeah. Okay. Good? Okay.
[Handsome] How about that?
Who wouldn't want a real detective as their babysitter?
Guess you. You're the one who doesn't.
I'm really good at dancing.
You're gonna love the show that I have planned for you.
Very exciting. I love the arts. I'm a patron.
Of the arts.
-Take a seat on the couch. -All right.
-When does it start? -[Carys] This is the pre-entertainment.
It's important to set a tone for the audience.
And for the record, you can't be talking to me.
Hi.
-How's Carys? -A delight.
-Really? -She's a great kid. Yes.
-Oh, good. Great. -Yeah.
-Is, uh, now a good time? -Yeah. Sure. Uh-huh.
-All right. How was your day? -Ugh, it was disgusting. [sighs] I hate teeth.
I am so sick of looking into people's mouths.
I have this recurring nightmare where
instead of all of my teeth falling out, I get more of them.
Just, like, more and more and more.
I get teeth fingernails and teeth toenails.
My belly button even sprouts a tooth. It's disgusting.
Have you thought of getting out of the dental industry? [sighs] Yeah. Teeth are vile.
[sighs] Yeah. Teeth are vile.
You know, both of our jobs, we see the worst of people.
That's so true.
-Heather, your babysitter. -Yeah. [sighs]
Did she have any romantic interests?
Oh... Um, not that I'm aware of.
You know, she did mention an ex-boyfriend, but he's back east and he's married now.
-I didn't get the sense that they talk. -Okay, do you have any info on him?
Uh, no, just that he's married. -That's it. -Okay.
Um, was anybody giving her any trouble?
Did she, um, uh, have any issues she was dealing with?
Well, I... I mentioned the, like, klepto shenanigans.
Well, I know she had a hard time paying bills,
-but that's pretty standard, right? -Mmm-hmm. I mean... [scoffs] so do I.
You know, the rent on this place is ridiculous, but we have to have a yard, so...
You know what? She did actually tell me that sometimes when she would go out,
she would get into these, like, bar fights with other girls when she got drunk.
About what?
Well, one time, I know it was because she made fun of a girl's highlights.
Apparently, Heather told her she looked like a bale of hay from Temecula.
-That's a very specific insult. -That is why it stuck with me.
Mmm. Did she live alone?
Oh, no, there's a roommate, Amanda. Here, give me your pad.
Uh, Amanda would probably know more of, like, the personal crap about Heather.
Most of the time, we just talked about what she gave Carys for dinner.
-That's the address. -You don't dot your I's.
Who needs 'em?
-Heather lived here in the living room? -Yeah.
This is all of her shit.
Um, listen, I have a guy from Tinder jogging over,
so is there any way you could come back later?
Forgive me,
but for someone whose roommate just died, you don't seem very upset.
Oh, no, I'm really sad.
But also, I want this place to just go back to being a normal one-bedroom, because this is a really awkward setup.
to being a normal one-bedroom, because this is a really awkward setup.
You two didn't get along?
No, I mean, she was fine. Like, if you had your period
and were lying down and complaining... But, like, she could also be really rude.
What, like making fun of your highlights?
I haven't had highlights since 2014, so...
I'm not keeping track. It's all good.
-What is this used for? -I don't know.
Uh... [groans] She was actually, like, a very problematic roommate.
Like, I have my childhood gymnastics trophies. I keep them on my headboard. She thought that was dumb.
So then when I went to the bathroom, she called me Mary Lou Rectum.
Oh, and then one time, she told me to tell my tits they could come out
now that my gymnastics career was over.
-She date anybody? -Heather likes old dudes.
There was one guy she was meeting up with. I think he was in his forties.
Old dude. [stutters] Yeah, what do you know about him?
Nothing. Uh, he didn't stay over. He didn't spend the night.
I do not think he wanted to be seen in public with her.
-Why's that? -Well, that's usually really good sex.
When someone hates themself for stooping to fuck you, you know?
No, uh, uh, I don't. I have no idea.
-Also he bought her a lot of finery. -Finery? [stutters] What's finery?
You know, luxury clothing for a modern woman.
"Silky Lamb." Is that like a lotion version of finery?
No, I just told you.
Finery is luxury clothing for a modern woman.
Listen, my booty call's about to be here any second,
and he's my favorite match on Tinder, so I can't have you fucking this up.
-Okay, thank you for being so patient. -You're welcome. Goodbye!
Lester! Welcome back, my friend. How was your vacation?
Had a mind to stay in Tahiti longer, but all these bodies thought different.
Pretty gruesome. What do you think? Well, something very interesting's going on. Come on over here.
Well, something very interesting's going on. Come on over here.
-You see this sheen coming off her skin? -I do.
Can you discern that this woman is unusually greasy?
-She is. -She is very well creamed.
-This here's a very well-creamed body. -She seems unusually greasy.
-You don't see this often. -That makes sense.
I was just at her apartment. She had an extremely nice jar of lotion.
Are you sure that jar you saw said "lotion"?
When I see the word "lotion," I don't forget.
No, no, no, no, no. This here's not lotion. This here's cream.
-Well, what's the difference? -You don't know?
-I don't know. -Well, lotion's water-based.
You apply it liberally all over your body. But cream is oil-based.
You got to be careful with cream. Lil' dab'll do ya.
Um, I'm sorry, [stutters] I didn't get that. Can you repeat that for me?
Okay, listen carefully.
Lotion is water-based. Use as much of that as you want.
Don't matter. It's water-based.
But cream, that's oil-based. You hear me? Oil-based.
-Lil' dab'll do ya. -Okay, so lotion, I go crazy.
-Yeah. -Do what I want. All over.
-Now what's the story with cream again? -Lil' dab'll do ya.
Thank you. Thank you.
Anyway, she was killed via blunt force to the head.
You see this globe-shaped dent here on her skull?
-Yeah. -Well, weapon was about yea big.
-Well, what about the dismemberment? -Well, that was all postmortem.
But what's most notable about the job is, whoever did it was very, very sloppy.
Just jabbing here and there till the limb come off.
Jabbing. Lil' jab'll do ya.
-Get the fuck on out of here. -Okay. [chuckling]
Cell phone records, bam.
Okay, so, uh, most of these calls are to be expected, right?
We got the job, roommate, parents, pot dealer, pussy waxer.
But then there's a number that repeats.
Traces to an office landline registered to an executive.
Lloyd Vanderwheel. He's in fireworks.
-Well-- -[Tucker] Handsome!
-Oh, shit. [sniffles] -We need to talk now!
-Meet you in the car? -Yeah. See you there.
[sighs] So, how'd you like the cookies?
Um... [stutters] They were great. Amazing.
-Ah, really? -Yeah.
Because truth be told, they weren't leftovers.
I made that batch just for you.
I just want you to know that I'm here. At the station. At your house.
Not my house. I have a family visiting from Caracas. They're very nice.
I just don't know how they feel about the sound of gentle lovemaking.
Or raunchy lovemaking. Whatever. Just sounds in general.
Why did I come here to see you? That's right.
The retirement papers. Sign 'em, Handsome. You're not fooling anybody.
And by the way, my tubes are tied.
You gotta fix this door.
-Yeah, I will. -[door creaks]
It's a booming, sparkling morning. Can I help you?
Yes. Detectives Handsome and Scozzari of the LAPD.
Uh, we're here to see one Mr. Lloyd Vanderwheel.
-One moment, please. Mr. Vander... -[phone beeps]
Oh, shoot. My finger slipped. [chuckles]
-Mr. Vander... Oh, shoot. -[Lloyd] Uh, yes, Sky. What's going on?
I'm sorry. [stuttering] I got excited and I pushed the button too soon, Mr. Vanderwheel. [chuckles nervously]
-Sky, don't push the button. -Oh, God! Go ahead. No, I...
Sky? Sky?
Hey, uh, forget about the intercom.
-[phone beeps] -These detectives are here to see you.
So, uh, what's this all about?
-[Handsome] Do the thing. -Yeah. [clears throat]
[Lloyd] What...
[stammers] What was that for?
Oh. Oh, this? Don't worry about it. -You look great in this shot. -[cell phone chimes]
Ah, then again, bet you've never taken a shitty photo in your life, huh?
-Is this about... -[cell phone chimes] ...the Lancaster Jazz and Heritage Festival?
Did we go too big? Uh...
I just got caught up with, uh...
So clearly, you're familiar with Heather Dromgoole.
-Heather? -You were seeing her romantically?
No. No, no, no, no, no. She's... she's an old family friend from back east.
The kid of my parents' friends.
Uh, she moved out here recently and, um, I was helping her get set up.
So you guys aren't a thing?
-No, I'm... I'm single. -[Fleur] Oh.
-So you're single? -Yeah. I'm single.
-He's single. -I was asking!
Okay, she'd be calling you regularly for?
Just to get advice. Check in.
She got real lonely in LA, as one does.
I think she looked to me like a bit of a father figure.
-Oh, yeah, Daddy? -Yeah. That's right.
So why you asking all these questions about Heather? Did she get arrested?
Why would you say that?
Uh, maybe blackmail.
I know she had a... a bit of a blackmail incident with her high school English teacher.
You know, I had a, uh, black male incident
with my sexy-ass black high school English teacher, too.
Heather was the victim of a murder on Thursday night.
Oh, my God! Uh...
I'm sorry.
What? [stuttering] I... This... I can't believe this. Wow.
I mean...
I can't believe this, but I can believe this.
-Excuse me? -Huh?
You know, some people, you can't imagine anyone wanting to murder.
But Heather?
You know?
But still, it's devastating.
Jesus. God. Jesus.
Any ideas of who would be upset with her?
Uh, no. No one comes to mind.
-[Sky] Mr. Vander... -[intercom key clacking]
I'm... I'm sorry. My one o'clock is here.
Um, but, hey, let me give you my card.
And, uh, you guys can give me a call if you have any, uh, more questions.
-Who's that? -Oh, that's, uh... It's my kid, Carys.
She's the biggest sweetheart. Anyway, here.
Yeah, just give me a call, uh, if you have any names you wanna run by me
and I'll help however I can. I... aim to please.
Oh, give me a fuckin' break.
I'm not buying the whole father-figure thing.
-Thank you very much. -Sure. Have an explosive day.
I mean, who calls their fake dad that much?
[Fleur] Yeah, yeah, it's very suspicious.
You know, I just, uh... [stammering] I realized I gotta go to the bathroom, like, bad.
-It's okay, I'll wait. -No, you know what? [stammers]
Could take a while, so why don't you just go ahead, and, uh, I'll take a cab back to the station.
That's okay. It's gonna be that long of a trip?
Yeah, uh... [sniffles]
-Okay, I'll just sit and meditate. -Nah. Nah, nah, nah. You know, you go on.
I mean, like the lady said, [chuckles] it's gonna be an explosive day, right?
-Interesting. -What? What?
-Hi there. -Why are you talking to me?
Ooh, the detective. Just busy detecting, aren't you?
I'm Charles, Carys' friend.
We met while making fun of the mailman's calves.
Hi, Charles, nice to meet you.
Carys, could you tell your mother that Detective Handsome's here to see her?
Oh, we're off to check out a four-bed, three-bath open house. So... [chuckles]
[Nora] Oh, hi, Gene. Come on in.
Hi, um, I was driving home from work, and I thought of something I wanted to ask you.
-Are you hungry? Do you want some pasta? -No, I'm good. I'm good.
Were you aware that your ex-husband knew Heather?
-What? Lloyd was fucking Heather? -Well, he says that he wasn't.
Oh! [grunts] You know what? I bet he got off on the fact
-that he was fucking my babysitter. -So you definitely didn't know?
He would fuck my gardener just to rattle me, 'cause that's just the kind of guy that he is.
-[Devon] Knock, knock. -Oh, hey, neighbor.
[chuckles] Hey.
[sighs] Aroma of the forest floor. Full-bodied. Jammy finish.
-That's what's in store for you tonight. -Wow, thank you.
-"Wow" is right. -You two know each other? Yeah?
-Devon. -Uh... [chuckles]
Yeah, we do. Handsome here has broken up quite a few of my house parties.
I affectionately like to call him Detective Buzzkill. [chuckling]
I wouldn't call four strippers playing with your dreidel collection a house party.
Sounds fun. Devon and I met when I was watering the flowers in this very window.
Mmm-hmm. And I was staring into her house over the fence.
-And then he waved at me. -Oh... -[Devon] I'm a waver. -[Nora] Mmm-hmm.
Then we locked eyes and there's a moment where we were like,
"We should probably have dinner together." And we're about to do that.
Cool, cool.
[Durante] Oh, Esta.
Put that accordion on my abs.
And, uh... a, uh, double cheeseburger.
Okay, and would you like to make that a meal?
You know what? Give me the single cheeseburger on its own and make the double cheeseburger a meal. Yes.
Okay, and what beverage would you like with your meal?
You know what? Fuck it. -Chocolate milkshake. -[man] Okay.
I'm sorry, I know you guys are church kids. Excuse the salty talk.
It's okay. Satan gets all of us sometimes.
Yeah. You know, tonight's the last night I'm gonna eat this crap.
I mean, no offense to Norm's Burger. I don't mean that your food's crap.
It's just... It's not good for a guy like me.
Yep, this is it. Gonna start fresh tomorrow.
I think that's great. You can be your best self. I can be my best self!
-Very kind of you. -Yeah.
Weren't you just out back there with the other guy?
Oh, the headset's broken, so...
Yeah. Sort of like old-fashioned service.
-Uh, yeah, a bit like that. -Okay.
Uh, $9.57's your total.
I was ready.
Thirty-two, please. Number 32, your order is ready.
Okay, so this is her debit. I flagged some interesting purchases.
Uh, okay, you tell me, who the fuck spends 900 bucks in one pop at Hallmark?
Hey? Come on.
I mean, otherwise, it seems kosher.
Uh, this one is her Victoria's Secret Angel Card.
I mean, the girl could not resist a "buy five panties, get the sixth free" event.
And, uh, here's her PayPal.
I found something which I think will intrigue you.
Okay? What's that?
-Did you sign off on this? -Yeah. Why?
What the fuck?
-When did she start wearing ties to work? -I don't know. Oh!
She's getting regular deposits from MrFFF@aol.com.
Fireworks, Fireworks, Fireworks, huh?
He's putting $500 a week into her account. What's he paying her for?
I guess it must be out of the goodness of his heart, right?
Where's the, uh, cell phone records?
And they're underneath, uh, this. And I've got them.
And okay. How about this?
Heather, Mondays at 7:30 p.m., is calling Lloyd.
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, also calling Lloyd.
Same time. Fridays... You ready for this?
1:30 p.m., she calls Lloyd. Take a guess why.
-Chits and chats at Chuckie's? -Yes!
-Yeah. -Yes! That sounds like fun.
Friday is the day that Heather gets off work early.
Nora works until 1:00.
She comes home. She says goodbye to Heather.
Heather goes out. Who does she call? Mr. FFF.
That's right. I think she's reporting to him.
Well, Mr. Vanderwheel, looks like we're having a reunion.
-[grunts] Hey, you. -Hey, you.
Don't play coy with me!
I know I'm looking at two people who did the hokeypokey yesterday.
-What? [chuckles nervously] -Bingo.
Okay, you were giving money to Heather to spy on your ex-wife.
What? [chuckles]
I see you.
Oh, I see you clearly.
And let's not waste this moment of beautiful transparency
by watching you throw a pile of stinky bullshit at my face.
Okay!
Okay, I planted Heather in Nora's home to get dirt on her.
We're in the midst of a custody battle.
And Heather would tell me things Nora would forget to do,
like get Carys her flu shot.
She told me the crap that Nora was feeding my kid.
She told me what would stress Nora out.
Besides me and my lawyer.
[Fleur] Okay. Look, I'm gonna ask you a few questions,
and, uh, Handsome over here's gonna know if you're telling the truth or not.
Did Heather turn on you and threaten to give you up to your wife?
No.
No. Uh, was Heather blackmailing you for even more money?
No.
Did you like that move I did yesterday
where I made your dick bend all the way to the right?
[softly] I loved it.
-[Sky] Bye! Have an explosive day. -Thank you.
You can go in now.
-Talking to me? -Yeah.
[sighs] Appreciate it.
Hey, Sky, is that the, uh, book of all your company's work?
Mmm-hmm. Sure is.
Wow, those are beautiful fireworks.
-[Fleur] Oh, yeah. -Really.
[Fleur] Very impactful.
Could I borrow that book for a couple of days?
Well, this is the coffee table book.
Well, you've already taken it off the coffee table.
Yeah, you have a point. But it'll go back over there soon.
If you remove it, then what would I put on the coffee table?
-You don't have a second book? -No.
We get a monthly fireworks magazine,
but it's not nice for putting out. [chuckles lightly]
You could consider this an opportunity.
-An opportunity? -Yeah.
To get a second book.
You could get a book on fireworks, plants, carpentry.
Whatever you want. You're in charge.
It's time.
Hi, Gene.
-Nora, how're you doing? -Good!
So, I think the mailman put one of your letters in my slot by mistake.
Indeed they did. Thank you very much.
-Can I ask you something? -Sure.
Is that someone you put in jail and now they send you threats?
[scoffs] No. Nothing like that.
-Oh, come on. Tell me. -No, it's not. [sighs]
A while back, I was into this woman.
Her brother was in prison. She said, "Could I look at his case?"
I did some investigating. And there wasn't much I could do.
But I started a correspondence with him, and I thought it was gonna be a temporary thing,
and I thought it was gonna be a temporary thing,
and here I am, ten years later, still getting letters.
So you still read his letters?
Of course! I feel bad tossing 'em.
Besides, every once in a while, he writes some nice poetry.
What are you up to this evening? Oh, well, I'm on my own tonight.
Just doing some online gambling. Carys is with her dad.
I'm always on my own.
-Well. -Yeah.
Would you like to come in?
-[Nora] Were you working late? -Um...
No, I was just, uh, out doing some errands. -Hmm. -Not a big deal.
You need another pillow?
Uh, no, I'm comfortable.
-Yeah. -Mmm-hmm.
-How about some music? -Oh, yeah, that'd be great.
Fantastic.
You are in luck, 'cause I just started buying 45s.
Last time I collected these, I was a little kid.
My first 45 was "I Think I Love You" by the Partridge Family.
Maybe that dates me. I don't know.
Well, anyhow, this is one of my favorite songs.
Mmm-hmm, that's Elvin Bishop.
Yeah.
-This is a good one. -Yeah.
♪ I must have been... ♪ Elvin's a blues guitarist. Blues guitarist.
His voice is very gravelly,
and so, he wrote this song and didn't feel it was right for his voice.
So he, uh... He let his, uh, backup singer, Mickey Thomas, sing the song.
And it went on to be a big hit. Big hit.
Yeah. Yeah. I like this chair better. Yeah.
I find the wooziness of that guitar
so romantic.
Yeah.
Elvin Bishop's nickname was Pigboy Crabshaw.
How about that? Pigboy Crabshaw! Where's a name like that come from? [sighs]
I'm sorry. [cries]
-What's going on? -Oh...
I'm fine. [chuckles]
I am a bit concerned. You know, you're crying.
No, no, no, no, no. [stutters] It's fine. I just, um...
[sighs] That song is just evoking something
I want so badly for myself that it aches.
For my kid.
I have this dream of owning land.
[sniffles] And, um, I think about Ojai all the time.
And in my dream, we have a couple acres. Nothing fancy.
Enough that we have those, like, big beautiful reaching trees.
And a bunch of dogs.
And they just run through the grass with Carys, and...
God! I love dogs so much.
And in my fantasy, I'm not, like, staring into people's decaying mouths anymore.
I'm massaging beautiful dogs for a living.
It's my job.
And I'm spending time with my daughter.
My weird... [cries] awesome kid.
[sniffles] And, you know, we're just... we're so far away from all of the fighting, and the...
and all the lawyers, and just all of that crap.
God.
And for some reason... [sniffles] in this song, I can just... I can really feel that.
I can feel what it would be like to have that.
God! [sniffles]
That's why I'm crying.
-I have the same exact dream. -[snickers]
-[chuckling] You do? -Yeah. Exactly the same.
I dream about the open land,
the green, the trees, the dogs.
Specifically, this dog.
And, uh, not being a dog masseuse. That's not something I'm interested in.
It's not for everybody.
But, um, you know, [stutters] I love all that.
And one thing that I don't have, that you have, is just the family aspect.
I... I dream of having a family. Yeah.
[sighs heavily] Isn't it so weird
how you can miss something that you never had?
It is.
You want some tea?
What do you think about a shaved pussy?
What?
Yeah. I'm getting up.
Then she mumbled, "What do you think about a shaved pussy?"
I mean, who says something like that?
Was she casually checking out my opinion? Was she taking a poll?
Was she gauging my interest? What is that?
Hey, look, I mean, it could've just been a point of personal curiosity,
like, "What do you think of this shade of lipstick?" type of thing.
-[clears throat] -[sighs] That's what I'm afraid of.
Yeah. Speaking of which, I have a very slightly achy vagina today.
I'm so sorry.
Eh, I'm walking a little funny. I mean, look, it's only slightly.
[Handsome] Mr. Vanderwheel!
-You're a difficult man to get ahold of. -His girth is nuts.
Hey.
Uh, heard from Sky that you were out here, uh, hooking up another event,
and so, uh, I just got a few more questions for you. That's no problem.
Tell me about the, uh, Lalalime party.
Did I ever tell you? Uh, you know, I fucked the founder of Lalalime once.
I got a free pair of pants out of it, so... -Very helpful. -Yeah.
Yeah, right, yeah, we did the show for that party, yeah.
And did you, uh, bring Heather?
Actually, yeah, I did.
When she found out it was, uh, a celebrity-packed thing, she begged to come.
Said that I could back off on buying her expensive finery
in exchange for me bringing her as my assistant.
Sorry, back up. "Finery"?
What's that?
I don't know. But she talked about it all the time.
It's luxury clothing for the modern woman.
Okay. What the fuck?
-So I know. Shoot me. -[sighs]
Hey, look, was she, uh, talking to any particular people at this party? Anything we should know?
I mean, she definitely was making the rounds,
but I was so busy overseeing the Dragon Dicks, I couldn't...
Oh, it's, uh... It's an industry nickname for grounded fountains.
Uh, anyway, I couldn't, like, keep an eye on her nonstop.
-There were, uh, gift bags there, correct? -Yeah.
-From, uh, the Silky Lamb? -What?
-Did you get one? -Oh, no, no, no, no. No.
Those... those bags weren't for us. Those were closely guarded.
Apparently, in these bags,
there was a lotion and a cream that was worth 1,000 bucks.
-You say a lotion and a cream? -Yeah.
A thousand bucks. Can you believe that? Lotion and a cream?
Heather tried to take a bag. They made her give it back. Said it was only for famous people.
-Are we good? -We're good.
-Got all we need. Thank you. -All right.
[Fleur] Thank you.
Oh, hey, uh, so listen, I was just thinking, uh...
I think I'm gonna hang back for a second, get more details on the party.
Nothing you need to concern yourself with, I just wanna make sure we cover our bases.
Where is this, uh, gonna take place? I don't see any space for that.
Oh, yeah. Well, you wouldn't, right? [chuckles] So...
Handsome.
Ingredient analysis on the girl's cream came back from the lab.
It matches a rarified brand.
Fancy-pants.
Silky Lamb?
-That's it! -Of course it is.
-Lil' dab'll do ya. -Indeed, Lester.
A lil' dab'll do ya. Have a good day.
Oh, my fucking back!
My back. Ow.
Fuck. Fuck. Fuck.
Yeah. I'll get you some water.
Oh, is that good!
Look at how delicious this water is! You're gonna love it.
All right. Mmm, diggity.
All right. There you go.
This'll make you feel better. All right. [grunts]
Let's get some... air for you.
Ah, there we go.
Feel better? Feels nice, right? [sniffles]
-What we got going on? -[whimpers]
Detective, well!
Come to check on my well-being? Now that's service.
-Yeah. I'm in the service industry. -[chuckles]
I'm sorry, did I interrupt your swim? Oh, no, it's fine, it's fine.
You know, there comes a point at which one can be too fit.
I've gotta watch myself sometimes.
Yeah, as, uh, an actor, your body is your instrument.
That's so true.
You know, when I'm performing, I'm never just delivering a line. I'm...
You know, when I'm performing, I'm never just delivering a line. I'm... vibrating.
No wonder the ladies love you so much.
My vibrating isn't something to joke about.
Right, right.
So I just came by to make sure that all your windows and doors are secure
and nothing could happen, you know...
Well, this is a bit, uh... Oh, good. All right.
Yeah. Yeah. That is solid as a rock.
You are good to go. Do you have any other doors like this in your house?
-Why, yes! Off the balcony in my bedroom. -Mmm.
By the way, there's no ice in there.
That's wonderful. After you.
Yeah, you wouldn't want anyone coming in here while you're sleeping, being vulnerable.
Oh, God, no. My emotional vulnerability is already at such peak level.
To think I'd also be physically vulnerable? [chuckles]
Yeah. Well, you know what? All tight. All good.
Yeah.
Well, looky-looky! How about that?
Got the Silky Lamb.
How about that?
You know, I hear great things about the companion lotion.
Do you have that, too?
Well, the lotion I gave to a friend. The crème is the superior product.
-The crème? -Crème.
Tell me about the crème.
Do you see how well-moisturized I appear, even though I just got out of the pool?
You're a very shiny individual.
I applied just a dime-sized dollop of Silky Lamb
when I got out of bed this morning. That's it.
No.
Yes. It's totally water-resistant.
Fucking genius! I swear by it.
A lil' dab'll do ya. [laughing] Huh?
Well, this takes over the room. Look at that.
Oh, yes. That was a gift I received, when I wrapped the film Atlas Shrugged Again.
Yeah, I don't normally do light romantic comedies,
but I felt I wanted to give back to some of my, well, simpler fans.
Yeah, that movie. Huh, can't all be winners.
Um, what? Oh, please! That movie was a piece of crap.
Oh, please! That movie was a piece of crap.
But, come on, that happens.
Oh, that reminds me.
Remember the last time we saw each other,
we talked about, uh, your movie Patty-Cake?
You know, the movie you watched
the night that that monster dropped that body off on your front lawn.
Yes, that was a terrifying evening. I shall never forget it.
Well, I watched it because you got me intrigued by your performance.
-And? -Well...
Well, what? You were a kid. What did you know?
Well, I'm sorry. [chuckling] You don't know what you're talking about.
Oh, come on. Those line readings?
Bit histrionic, don't you think? Heavy-handed.
It's as if you were attempting to act, as opposed to just acting.
How fucking dare you.
I was luminous!
I fucking killed it.
Those scenes hold up, you fucking half-wit!
You've got quite a temper.
I betcha Heather Dromgoole brought out your dark side
when she made fun of your performance right to your face.
-Never met her. -Oh, I think otherwise.
As a matter of fact, I've got a half-wit theory about it.
[Handsome] I think you met Heather at the Lalalime party.
I think when she was denied a Silky Lamb gift bag,
she went looking for a celebrity.
And she found you.
[Handsome] She came home with you. You two had sex to seal the deal.
And she landed that Silky Lamb lotion as a parting gift.
She stopped by the night of the murder. Things got sexy again.
I think you creamed Heather head to toe before you made love to her.
After sex, you two were lounging around, flipping through the channels.
Ooh! Oh! It's my movie.
[Handsome] You found your own movie! You never pass up watching your own movie.
This is the worst thing I've ever seen.
[Handsome] I think Heather made fun of your crappy performance.
Is this, like, before you took acting classes? This thing sucks.
Patty-cake, patty-cake, baker's man.
[Handsome] She had a bad habit of that.
You know, people I talked to said she liked to do a little ribbing.
I think she was standing about right here.
And then you got angry. Yeah, real angry.
You shoved Heather from a dark place of inner rage.
But I think she was very greasy. Very slippery.
And she fell backwards into your statue,
which, of course, explains the globe-shaped dent in her head.
A woman lay dead on your floor because of your fragile ego.
And then you panicked.
And you went to your neighbor's garage and you chopped her up
to make it look like it was some sort of serial killer type thing.
Your cuts were so profoundly sloppy because your hands were heavily creamed,
the tools slipping in and out.
And then you chopped up her body and threw it out on your front lawn.
Like a pile of dog shit.
'Cause who's gonna suspect a killer of dumping a body on their own front lawn?
Now here's where I was really confused.
The Star of David? That one had me miffed.
And then, I figured it out!
You're a self-loathing Jew. You're a self-loathing Jew.
[Talbert] You bastard!
-You're gonna end up dead on my lawn, too! -Get off me!
Freeze, asshole!
-How? -The sliding door by the pool.
[pants] But you checked the door. You jiggled the handle!
That was a fake jiggle, my friend.
I should be an actor.
Well... [grunts] I guess that explains why my vagina was achy all morning.
Why's that?
Well, you know, it knew you were gonna need help. It was pulsing a warning.
So that's your finely-tuned intuition?
Oh, yeah. Either that or, you know, my pussy can't handle more than four toes anymore.
-[laughs] -I hope it's not that.
-I love you for so many reasons. -Yeah, yeah, yeah.
[Joe] Hey, Bacorn, nice bathrobe. Fuck you, Joe Kenda. Fuck you!
You wouldn't like me. I just lay there.
-Lieutenant. -Detective Handsome.
I told you it was the ex-boyfriend.
The old "If I can't have you, no one can have you" trick.
Yeah, that's a... that's a good theory, uh, but he's not the ex...
Well, yes, he's the ex-boyfriend. Good one. Good theory.
What the fuck? Hi. [stammers] What is going on here?
Hi. Detective Handsome, LAPD.
-Kaley. You know... -Hi, Kaley. I live right there.
-You live right there. -Yeah. So it's your dog.
-Oh, my God, is... is my dog okay? -Dog's good.
Oh. What is this shit going on next to my house, man?
Uh, your neighbor, uh, murdered somebody.
This is ridiculous. I just got back from vacation. And here I am, coming back to all this commotion next to my house.
And here I am, coming back to all this commotion next to my house.
Wait a second. You're Kaley Cuoco.
-Yeah. -Wow.
-I love saying your name. -Oh. -It's a delight. -That's nice.
It rolls off the tongue. Kaley Cuoco.
Do you need any help solving this one?
-No, we're good. -Okay.
Even though you're Kaley Cuoco and I'd love to say, "Come on in."
-[chuckles] Okay. -It's all solved. -All right. Great. -He's being taken away.
This is so fucked up. You know what... Driver! Take me back to the airport.
-Enjoy your good looks. -All right.
[narrator] "A Lil' Epilogue'll Do Ya."
Wow, I am so lucky that I met you.
Honestly, I look at your face and I just...
[chuckles] I don't even know how to talk about it.
Seriously, this feeling I have is just...
bigger than anything I could ever explain to you.
I cannot believe that you...
Miss, we're just about wrapped up inside and ready to bail.
Great! Thank you. You can call me Nora.
-Hmm, Nora it is. -[chuckles]
And we found this Tupperware of cookies on the side of the washer. You taking these with?
Oh, no, those are gross. You can toss them out. All right.
Anyway, back to what I was saying before.
I cannot believe you have done this for me. I really can't.
Well, if a person can make someone else happy, they ought to do it, right?
Right. I can tell it makes you a little uncomfortable to be thanked, so I'll stop.
We were gonna have you up once we get settled, but then I realized you would not be comfortable with that.
but then I realized you would not be comfortable with that.
I don't think I'd be uncomfortable with--
Yeah, no, I know you would hate that power dynamic.
Me, just, like, so grateful. [chuckles] You, a goddamn angel.
I don't know that I would go calling me an angel.
Yeah. And like an angel, it's better for you to just stay at a distance.
Observe from the clouds.
[laughing] You don't want me calling you and sticking around in your life.
I know you would not be comfortable with an arrangement like that, so I'll save you from the pressure.
[stammers] I'd be comfortable. It'd be okay. Yeah. Carys!
Honey, come here.
I want you to say thank you to Gene before we never see him again, okay?
I don't want to.
-[Handsome] That's okay. -[Nora] Carys.
-She doesn't have to, it's not-- -I wasn't finished.
I don't wanna thank him in words.
I'll thank him with a dance.
This is the shining youth of America. [chortles]
[whispering] Yes, yes, yes.
Well, I think I should be thanking you.
That was something.
Goodbye, Gene.
Forever.
We're all good, Nora.
-Oh, okay. -[chuckles] Mmm.
-[Handsome softly] Oh, boy. -[Nora and man] Mmm.
Boy, uh... that's, uh, not what I expected.
It is what it is. Yeah.
Au revoir, Detective.
-Yeah, later, Charles. -Yeah. Excuse me.
-You're in... you're in my way. -Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, come on. Candy, over here.
-Okay. -All right.
All right, come on, sweetie. Let's go, come on.
[Durante] Hey, Handsome!
Neighbors moving out already?
-[barking continues] -[softly] It's okay.
Yeah, she's heading out to Ojai. She got a couple acres and a little farmhouse.
What's she gonna do out there? Well, she's given up being a dental assistant.
She's gonna go into canine massage.
She found a program there.
Two hundred hours, you're in. It's kind of holistic. She's very excited.
Wonder what kind of money you can make massaging dogs.
She'll be fine.
It is what it is.
Later.
Nobody gave you permission.
Yes! He has!
No your father certainly has not!
First of all, he is not my father.
Really?
Whose father is he then? Mine?
Anyway, I don't know. I need to go now.
Go where?
I have to go...
Go where ?
I told you, I have to go to the college festival.
Don't you dare lie!
Why are you talking bullshit?
Don't lie ! I know you are going out for a night out...
...dressed like a slut!
Don't think I'm stupid.
Ma... don't be so dramatic.
Dramatic? Who is being dramatic?
All those TV soaps have really messed up your brain !
Messed up ? Yes I'm messed up ! A daughter like you will drive anyone insane !
Where do you think you are going dressed like this? Huh!
Where are you going for night out?
Ria! Just try stepping out!
I swear Ria! I will break your legs!
Ria! This is the last time!
I will see you!
I'll never ever let you in again!
Rickshaw!
Rickshaw!
Ria! Don't forget what I told you!
Shit!
You left your phone back at home?
I'm not sure...
Look again!
Do you have Pele's number?
How will I have it?
Just call Babai!
Uff...
Hey! Where are you?
My balls have grown fungus waiting for you!
Hey sexy! Say something!
Hey bro! What's up?
Bro I am fucking screwed...
...I called up Ria,
I said that I am waiting, and was generally talking...
...called her sexy and all...
Told her to stop cock teasing and come...
Spoke to her for a bit...
Then, you know, this serious voice answers...
I will cut your fucking balls off.
What the fuck man!
You find it funny?
That's why I don't tell you shit!
Stop laughing you fucker!
Asshole! Fucker hung up!
All three together?
Who sits where?
First you, then her, tight!
Are you ready?
What's up?
Just hanging.
So tell me...
Hey pass me a smoke.
Uff... What style man!
Motherfucker it is then?
Is this your brother's scooter?
Just sit here!
What, tell me...
Did he buy this with his bodyrub money?
Don't you guys know? His brother is a masseur!
Fuckers, he is not a masseur!
Then what?
How much was this for?
50 bucks.
What bullshit man! 50 bucks for this crap?
Where did those two go?
So? Think you will score tonight?
Confidence dude! Whatever you do, do it with confidence.
And don't fuck this up. I set this up just for you!
Okay cool! But, where?
In a hotel.
In the same room?
Full orgy, brother!
What a shitball show! You call yourself a manager!
Fuck man how was I supposed to know?
Not a cat around. You call this a show?
There are more bands than fucking people.
What do you mean? Fuck you! We need shows!
How the fuck do I know everything? I am a manager, not a pimp.
Hey you, what the fuck's going on?
Yeah? Who the fuck are you?
Don't you see what's going on? Blind fuck!
Don't touch me!
I'll break your balls motherfucker! Stop fucking around!
What did you say?
I'll give it to you real good motherfuckers!
I'll shove this up your cunt, you little fuck!
Come alone if you have the balls fucker!
Babai let's go!
Go, go, go!
Fuck your mother, fucktard!
Something,something yes I want It's something that I want
It's what I see what I say Yes I chant, I want
The city, the bridge the corporation, railway station
Crooked words dirt and turds
The buildings they have fangs They bite at night
I know it's bad to want But then I'm sunburnt
A little hot juicy  I want a little pussy
Drool spills from my lips Dark shadows lurk blood drips
Hungry for blood restless as fuck If you can get away, do it, good luck!
The game must be played It's time that you prayed
You must play the game You can't stay the same.
Something something yes I want It's something that I want
It's everything that I want
A little something that I want
You! Put that down. Don't drink openly.
We could get into trouble...
Enjoying the holiday huh?
Is your daddy wearing the helmet at home?
Sir, please let us go, it's a holiday.
Take out your license!
Sir please, I've left my license at home...
Then come, let's go the police station!
Sir, please sir, let us go...
Please sir!
Call the patrol car.
Sir, we really need to get back home.
But sir, we didn't do anything. You're harassing us just like that.
Stinking of booze! 'Just like that'!
Here, dear girl!
Don't be scared!
Let me see your bag!
Pass the bag!
Come on then, get going!
Go home!
Now fuck off!
Go, Fuck off!
They fucked us good, those dumb fucks!
They took the money.
Didn't leave us any cash!
They literally turned us into beggars fucking shitheads!
I'm telling you man, let's go back home!
How many times are you going to count?
We are fucking broke.
Oi Payel, come here...
What?
Just give me your hand...
Why?
You Bitch!
What the fuck!
Crazy!
So, then let's check out the hotel?
Hotel?
Fresh as fuck Fish fry I want
To fuck everything that's what I want
It's not light But dark I want
To cut the night in two a sharp knife I want
I want to fuck Gimme my space I want
Fuck the face It's tits that I want
A cool dress a hot chick One night is what I want
And if you can't give me shit A bomb is what I want
Husband and wife! Really? Where's your marriage certificate?
We've to tell cops everything.
We have only dormitories. Will that do?
We don't want any more trouble!
We've only single beds.
Where have you come from?
Sorry nothing for just one night! No, we don't want any police problem!
How can we let students stay overnight? Find some other spot.
Amar Hotel
I hope there are no identity fuck ups here...
Maybe we should offer more money?
Sir? Do you have any vacancy?
Hello sir!
Sir, can we get a room?
Strange!
Sir?
What a fucking hotel! We just got in and the power's gone?
Weirdo!
What a dick, shining his torch on our faces like that!
Where do you think that fucker went?
Just wait!
He asked us to wait.
Now what?
Where's this guy?
Come let's check upstairs.
I mean...must we?
He said he'll be back.
Careful, watch the steps!
Just shine the torch will you!
Fucking dickhead! Was that really necessary?
Come on!
Let's go!
You have to behave like a dick!
Fucker!
What happened?
You go first.
Bloody dick brain!
I'm so, so hot My burning bad
I feel sooo hot So so hot
I'm a furnace inside Believe it or not
It burns a lot It's so so hot
I'm so, so hot My burning bad
I feel sooo hot So so hot
I'm a furnace inside Believe it or not
It burns a lot It's so so hot
What the fuck was going on in that hotel?
Dude, you didn't see it!
What the hell was happening?
What was happening?
What the fuck was happening?
Sir, please turn on the AC
What was happening? Fuck! What?
You think Ria will do me?
Yeah yeah she will... you think you can manage ?
Yes boss, but where?
Where! where where fuckface!
What the fuck was happening!
You shouldn't play with something hot!
Didn't your dad tell you boy?
I'm burning in the flame of beauty
I feel sooo hot So so hot
There's a heatwave in my body
I feel sooo hot So so hot
I'm burning in the flame of beauty
I feel sooo hot So so hot
There's a heatwave in my body
I'm sooo hot So so hot
Let's go!
Did we miss something?
-Forget it man! -Hey where you going?
Hello! Popuda!
Do you have a room available?
Oh Popuda, you don't have to call the cops...
Hello!
What did Popuda say?
This sucks!
Ria...
What?
Strawberry...
Blueberry.
Extra Dotted.
Shall we just put the condoms on our thumbs or what?
What a fuckall place we live in.
Can't even get laid!
You said it...
And then those two useless fuck faces!
And this bitching heat!
A.C. (air conditioning)
Shopping mall
Come on.
Ready!
Set.
Go!
Fucker!
Come on!
What ? Let's go!
Your mall idea was kickass!
Well, someone had to do something!
So what shall we do now?
Do I have to spell that out as well?
Put your hand on your waist.
Why?
Just do it!
No!
Please do it, please!
I want to take a picture.
You're looking good in that dress.
You are looking like a model. Put your hand on the waist.
Drop the sari a bit?
Come down? Let me do a close-up.
Come...
Want to take one together?
Hey dickhead!
Where's the booze?
How the hell am I supposed to know?
Whose bag is it?
Yours...
Whose bottle is it?
Yours...
Who is going to bring it?
Your dad will bring it you fuck!
Why do you pull his leg all the time?
No not this way.
No not this way.
Hey!
What the hell are you doing?
What happened to you?
What happened bro?
Why are you panting like this?
Where's the booze?
Hey asshole!
Where are you running from?
Just shut it ! Fucker...
You want booze, this, that, everything!
I am not your father's servant you moron!
Oh really...
You keep drinking that. I will eat this.
Hey!
What?
Don't go there...
Why?
I am telling you...
Come with me...
Why?
Tell me.
Do you want to talk or play?
What the fuck!
Hey fucker...
What's there to see? Huh?
What's your problem huh?
Are you fucking deaf or what?
Do you think this is a free show? You old pervert!
What happened bro?
Shhh, quiet! Stop shouting!
What do you want me to do?
Just shut up!
-What happened? -I don't know.
Hey!
Fucker! I've had it with you.
What the fuck?
Pele, what's wrong with you?
You fucking faggot!
What are you doing! Get up.
Get over to that side!
Stand back over there and don't move!
This is too much man, I'm warning you!
Fuck off and shut your face! Just stand there and shut the fuck up.
I understand, he's young, hot headed.
Fetch some water! Do something.
Fuck! Just chill! He's fine!
Shut up... I'm telling you for the last time!
Babai! There's no water.
We are old people...
We have nowhere to go, We are stuck here.
Where have these shit heads come from?
What's your fucking problem?
Who are these people?
-Who are these people? -I don't feel good about this.
I'm telling you, man...
Are you scared of a couple of oldies?
Bro, enough! Stop acting like a cunt. Sorry.
Here, have some booze.
Drink up. Here, have a sip.
-Here, have a sip. -Why the fuck did you hit me?
I'm sorry, My apologies!
Don't be so hot headed! Just drink and be cool.
You seem tired.
Why don't you rest here?
We can all leave in the morning.
You guys wait here, okay ?
Yes, we can wait here, but...
He is not feeling well.
Do you guys have something to eat?
It's a long night...
You have any munchies in that bag ?
Nothing!
This is all there is...
I won't have it anymore.
Give it to me.
I don't think she should drink that!
My throat is burning!
Take it slow.
Find some water, please!
I'll be right back.
Where are you going?
-Where are you going? -Take it easy.
Take it slow. Try to sit straight please.
Try to sit straight please.
Shall we play?
Which color goes to who? Red green yellow blue.
These colours deceive. Do you have a clue?
Choose your colours. The game has chosen you.
I choose the game's choice.
I choose the game's choice.
Blue.
Green.
Yellow.
A six and a five. Try and stay alive.
Now I've got the four. No one's safe anymore.
Girl you got four in the cup. Why don't you just eat him up?
Eat him up?
Eat him.
Should I eat him now?
Yes.
Ria!
Ria! Get up. Come!
Get up!
Get going!
Ria! Don't go to the escalator.
Don't go on the fucking escalator!
Babai got killed! Oh God, Babai's dead!
God! You saw that Babai died.
I didn't do anything.
I've committed no sin.
It all happened because of these whores.
Babai got killed!
You saw it God! Babai was eaten.
I've done nothing.
I didn't commit any sin.
Don't you want to fuck? Huh!
Come on. Let's do it.
I'll fuck you good today!
You think you can handle it?
Leave her!
Shut up bitch!
Come on, let's fuck!
Bloody whore.
I should fuck you first. Fucking whore!
Enjoying it? Huh!
You want to Fuck? You Asshole!
Don't go there. Don't!
Listen! Listen to me. We could get out that way. Come with me.
What is this place! Why did I come here?
Listen.
Let me tell you a story.
A long, long time ago...
They made a mistake.
A grave mistake.
And so they fled. They ran.
But how could they escape?
They were immortal.
Since they were kids, they used to play a game.
The game of "finding the game".
Everyone in the Irum family knew about this mysterious game.
Mirumi and Kirama Irum. They knew the story well.
The forbidden game called for them, beckoned them, whispered to them at night.
The flute was the key to the game.
But they weren't supposed to know that.
They were fools. They did not know that the game was a master of illusion.
The game had been locked away for centuries.
The Irum clan were the chosen keepers of the game.
The most dangerous game  of the world.
If the game ever found a way out, It would result in disaster.
Fusing root magic and illusion,
with powerful chants,
the Irum clan had contained the evil game.
The game,eager for release, was patiently waiting,
for the keys of fate to turn.
The ancient, cunning game was thirsting for only one thing.
Blood!
Their father, Shaman Faruk Irum, was an alchemist and occult practitioner.
The dirty old game had managed to evade him and escape,
hallucinating Mirumi and Kirama. Making them do as it pleased.
I curse you.
Father!
It was a cruel and inhuman hunger they felt.
They couldn't eat human food anymore.
Every pore of their body cried out for something moist.
As if their very life had been suddenly sucked out of them.
Blood.
Sweet.
Fresh.
The elixir of life.
The game was playing with them.
It's not easy to be a monster.
The game didn't let them eat.
They rotted,wasted and withered away. Mirumi and Kirama.
Death eluded them.
Their's was a poisoned life.
An unending,impossible existence. An inhuman suffering.
Time stopped making sense.
As if it had ceased to exist.
They hid,for what felt like centuries,
in the basement of an old,dead temple.
And they hid the cursed game with them.
But this was a game of fate and chances
and fate has its own twists.
The game was playing with them.
for thousands of years.
Exactly like it played with others,
Like it's playing with you right now.
Oh no.
They went insane,
blinded by their bloodlust.
Senseless, rootless, lifeless.
The devil had captured them.
The old game suddenly sprung its surprise.
A new player.
Oshini Irum.
She was born of the same seed, belonged to the same clan.
She had spent her whole life waiting for the game to come to her.
They couldn't even begin to imagine what was to follow.
Oshini had been handed down
the family heirloom. The fatal flute.
Mirumi and Kirama had the cursed game.
But Oshini the Shaman, she had the key.
Mirumi!
Mirumi!
Your father had no clue how powerful the game is.
you both are equally inept!
You and your lover,
I want that game.
I know what to do with it.
You don't know anything.
And you will never know.
One needs to transcend for that.
One needs to seek transcendence.
Who knows,when or what
how the dice will roll?
Drops of blood tears your eye
who knows, when how or why
The unbridled game wanted a practitioner, a skilled hand.
Someone whose roll of dice could begin the
game's killing spree - across the world.
I won the game.
Do you have a room to rent?
Ace of Hearts!
What are you doing here?
You steer the boat  And I'll fix the sail
Pull as hard as you can
The wind blows sharply  And clouds cover the sky
Girl, hold the boat quickly
This can't go on, my friend.
I can't live like this anymore.
And what exactly is troubling you, my prince?
How do I tell you?
What do I say?
What do I want to say?
Do you know what troubles the swans?
What drives them away in their hordes to the Himalayas in springtime?
Well, it's their home, isn't it?
Home? Why do they leave then? What makes them leave home?
No.
No. That's not what it is.
The reason is their desire. To fly. To feel the joy of freedom.
Rattle the chains,  Clank, and clamor
Let the storm rage Face it with fearless dignity
Bound by boundaries, this miserable Imprisonment, it's time for freedom
The storm signals a revolt So shout out loud! Protest!
Shout out loud, it's time for freedom
A hard wind blows
Dark clouds loom and tremble
Prepare to fight and overcome
Stop staring at the past
Being anxious and restless
Being stagnant and indecisive
Solve your confusion, listen to that call
Cross the sea of chaos
And the answer will emerge from within
Stop staring at the past
Being anxious and restless
Being stagnant and indecisive
Is anyone staging The Land of Cards?
Really! No one is doing it?
Hey, Tanaji!
Listen...
You do plays, right?
You are into theater, correct?
I'm thinking of producing The Land of Cards.
-You know this one, don't you? -No.
The play, The Land of Cards  by Rabindranath Tagore?
Look, this is Tasher Desh...
written by Tagore, as you know...
He dedicated it to Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the freedom fighter.
I will listen to it tomorrow... I have to go now...
Hold on for a moment, wait...
It's a musical. The first song is here...
Khoro Bayu, the Wind of Change
Everyone knows it...
It's a lovely song, yes, I know.
You know the song?
Yes, I do!
Sing it then...
Here? Sing it? Now?
Sing.
Solve your confusion, listen to that call
Cross the sea of chaos
And the answer will emerge from within
At the dawn of the apocalypse A dread locked sky will look down
And strike hard With storms fierce and raging
The waves will dance wild
Let the storm not overcome you Catch on to its wild rhythm
Sing and shout, for freedom will be yours
Shout out loud! Protest
A hard wind is blowing
Dark clouds hug the horizon
O sailor, row with some vigor
Hold on to the hull
Let me tie the sails
Hold on to the hull
Let me tie the sails
Shout and cry, give it all that you can
A hard wind blows
Dark clouds loom and tremble
Prepare to fight and overcome
Tasher Desh by Rabindranath Tagore
Once upon a time, there was a story.
Once upon a time, there was a king.
There was a queen...
and there was...
The Prince.
So you want to fly?
Desperately!
You really want to fly?
Yes, I do.
Flying?
You seriously want to fly?
Are you quite sure?
Yes, I am!
For the fun of flying?
Yes.
Do you want to fly?
Of course I do!
Destiny is a bitch. She will take you there.
Destiny.
I can't go on like this anymore.
We are trapped, inside a prison.
We can't go anywhere.
It's a prison, no way out.
Destiny is our prison. We can't go anywhere.
Mother!
I don't get you, really.
What I want to know is...
why do you want to fly around pointlessly
when it's far more sensible to calmly live inside a cage?
What's so sensible about it?
Because we live in a gilded cage.
We are chained, but comfortable. With lots of good food.
You won't get it.
You'll never understand.
Your attention, please.
The train going to Ghutiari Sharif from Ballygunge
is arriving at platform number one.
It won't arrive. It won't come.
Destination is mythical.
Your attention, please.
Down Sealdah Bujbuj Local,
the train for going to Bujbuj...
It's a pretense, all of it.
...is arriving on platform number two.
Nothing is real, it's a facade.
I have a problem.
I fail to understand things that cannot be understood.
Please clarify this for me...
What is it that you despise so much?
The monotony of my imperial existence.
These boring days and nights.
What's so monotonous about this?
Look at all the organization...
All these luxuries!
It feels like I'm a concrete statue, inside a golden temple.
Trapped inside a staccato rhythm of conch-shells, drums, and bells.
There's lots of food on offer, but the God has lost his appetite.
How can anyone tolerate this?
My kind can tolerate this very well.
Thank God we are spoon-fed all the time!
I'd be absolutely clueless otherwise.
We are happy with whatever we get.
But you are obsessed with...
the desire for the unattainable.
NO ENTRY
We're trapped in a web of lies and deceit.
It's a pretense, all of it.
I'm the prince of asses, you understand?
I feel like smashing this facade.
When I see farmers tilling their land, I envy them
watching them enjoy their simple but true life.
Maybe you should find out what they think of you.
You don't make any sense, my prince.
You're hiding something.
You're hiding the truth inside you.
The Oracle.
The Oracle.
The Oracle.
The Oracle.
The Oracle.
Oracle.
Oracle!
Oracle!
Oracle!
Oracle!
Oracle!
Oracle!
Oracle!
Oracle!
Oracle!
The truth will burst forth
Burst forth and rise
And show through, blazing
In these silent eyes
The truth will burst forth
Burst forth and rise
And show through, blazing
In these silent eyes
The hidden truth
No
Burst forth and rise
The truth will burst forth
Like a tune on a flute
In your nervous smile
On your lips the truth will dance
As you dream awhile
Like a tune on a flute
In your nervous smile
On your lips the truth will dance
As you dream awhile
No, I cannot deny it any more
Out of my soul will the secret pour
In the agonized hum of the bee in flight
In the flowering bud As it thirsts for light
In the heart Trembling like a lotus awoken
In the agonized hum of the bee in flight
In the flowering bud As it thirsts for light
In the heart Trembling like a lotus awoken
Let the light ignite your mind
Let it tremble with incandescence
It's the dawn of truth Illuminated by freedom
No, I cannot deny it any more
Out of my soul will the secret pour
The truth will burst forth
Burst forth and rise
And show through, blazing
In these silent eyes
The truth will burst forth
Burst forth and rise
And show through, blazing
In these silent eyes
The truth will burst forth
I do have a secret.
Hidden beyond the distant skies.
At the seashore beyond the western horizon.
That's where my fate lies, an undiscovered treasure.
And I will set out to find it.
In my confinement
My desolate mind desires
I want to want
To have what I can't
The evening star dies For the morning to be born
What is death but reoccurence?
Why is an exit so painful Yet so alluring?
I do understand, my child.
You see...
You are stuck in the circle of destiny.
You are suffering with your reality.
Your desires, your fantasies...
Your destiny has always impeded them.
If I hold on, I am sure to lose you.
You will not be able to bear the burden
of a prisoner's life, the tedium and despair.
I will not be afraid to let you go.
I will bless you with the white light.
Adorn you with white petals,
glistening with clear dew.
On your eyes
I will smear the smoke of the holy fire.
To illuminate the path into your fantasy.
Your behavior clearly suggests
that you are going on a grand tour of illusion.
Do you have a destination?
The New.
The New.
The New.
Finally! Some clarity.
It will be long journey towards clarity, my friend.
I must leave
I must go
I must go where I want to
Even if it's nowhere
Destiny cannot hold me back
For I will write my own fate
I must go where I want to Even if it's nowhere
In the ship of my soul will I sail
Let the winds carry me away
Who knows where I will land?
What depths of the ocean will I fathom
I will follow my guide, my love
Follow her blindly
It will be dark
But I shall persist
I won't die a death of misery
Nor a death of futility
As a prisoner of my destiny
I must leave
I must go
A green dot on a bed of blue
A coral enclosed jewel
Through the leaves and the greens
The wind speaks in whispers
Where forests unfurl themselves
And let the river dance through
There I shall find
That exquisite jewel I seek
I will go
I will go...
What troubles you, oh ducks?
What troubles you?
What is the trouble?
Ace of Hearts!
What are you doing here?
"From the port of my mind I sailed
Into a dark ocean I sank
Now swept ashore a strange space
A premonition consumes me
As if I have been reborn"
A PLAY BY RABINDRANATH TAGORE
You've been obsessing with the "new," my prince!
But I'm not very sure about it.
Whatever you say, my friend,
back home it was super comfortable.
Frogs feel comfortable. In the safety of damp, dark wells.
Don't you get it?
We have defied death!
The God of Death has granted us a new life.
You were born blessed with a royal life anyway.
That was a stupid handout of destiny.
But this benevolent God has washed it all off, and commanded us.
"Win the Battle of Fate," he said.
In a new land, using the power of freedom.
"Celebrate the new," said He.
A new land A new beginning - A new life
As our boat sank
And we battled the oceans
To witness another life
Reached in a new land
Mysterious tongues, unspoken minds
She will sing to me
Wondrous webs of hope and dreams
She will spin for me
A colorful tale of despair and hope
The rhythm of this new story throbs
And makes us delirious
The pure beauty of the unseen
The mysterious magic of her mind
This new tale shall show it all
Reached in a new land
A mysterious lover, an angel
With petals of an unnamed flower
A garland she weaves
Of new thoughts and feelings
A mysterious lover, an angel
With petals of an unnamed flower
A garland she weaves
Of new thoughts and feelings
Prince, I just can't understand this?
Where did you see your "new youth" in this horrible country?
I've had a quick look-around.
These people are like cubes and boxes.
Square to die. And that unbearable march!
There's nothing new here, in this land of the dead.
Clearly, this means that it's all a scam.
It's a lie, it's all made up.
It's been thrust upon them by those who govern.
And that's why we're here, my friend.
We'll break it all down.
We'll show them the wonder of their true selves...
It will leave everyone mesmerized.
I am a merchant, my prince
I see what I see. The plain truth.
'You' are into abstractions and inner meanings.
Okay, let us see then...
Let's try to start a fire by blowing into ashes.
Mark my words. You'll blow your life out... trying.
The Prince reached this strange land
with his merchant friend.
It was a land of rules,
everyone following orders, making strange sounds.
Here they come.
The marching dead. The puppets of doom.
Land of the completely insane.
Order!
How dare you!
Laugh?
Show some shame!
Stop the laugh!
You dare break rules!
Laugh is banned!
We have a reason to laugh.
Unlike your weird behavior.
Reason!
Who needs reason?
We only need order!
Don't you understand? Are you insane?
It's tough to identify a real lunatic. How did you guess?
Observing your method and manner!
And what did you observe?
We observed.
You have manner.
But no method.
Meaning you have method but no manners?
Don't you know?
Manner is old hat.
Method is the new order.
Idiots!
Imbeciles!
Infants!
Now identify yourselves!
We are foreigners.
That's it!
Say no more!
So you have no class!
No caste!
No creed!
No clan!
No kin!
No sect!
No hierarchy!
No order!
No one's human in that land of rules.
Everyone is a soldier. Military.
Heavy boots trampling the sand.
Red. Black. Uniform.
Fascists.
We are the famous
Race of Cards!
Number Six!
Number Five!
What is your origin?
Brahma (the creator)
got tired
of creation.
At dusk
he yawned
a holy yawn.
That sacred
yawn is
our origin.
That auspicious time.
That celestial mouth.
Four sacred yawns.
The four holy mouths!
Holy Shit!
What happened then?
Out popped.
Pop. Pop. Pop.
Spades.
Diamonds.
Hearts. Clubs.
Heavenly!
Pure!
Beings!
You, foreigners...
As per heathens
surely you have some kind of origin?
Indeed!
The grand old man, Brahma
first began to polish the sun.
Suddenly a naughty spark
flew into his right nostril.
With a deafening sound like a cannon burst
the god sneezed.
That stunning sneeze
was the center of our origin.
Now we get it.
This is the reason
of your madness!
We can't stay still.
We are always nervous.
That is not good.
Of course it's not good.
The ghost of the past
keeps on haunting us.
What is your race called?
We are called the Nasalese.
People of the Faulty Nose.
We have never heard
of an honorable race
with such a name.
The Holy Yawn floated you heavenwards.
You are celestial people of a higher class.
We are but dirty low end scum.
The holy obstructed nose
and its vagaries
have made you so strange!
Finally you got to the point.
We are the Strange People.
This cannot be allowed!
You are breaking the law!
If we don't break things, how can we fix them?
But what about order?
Beyond the boundaries of Order
you can always find freedom.
How else will we progress?
Brother Six.
What are they talking about?
Progress?
How fearlessly he said the word...
Progress!
What's the meaning of movement without progress?
Movement?
You cannot decide how you move.
You move as you are ordered!
All the cards
Follow rules
Rules are sacred
Rules are absolute
Rules are rules
Follow rules
Don't look too far
Don't turn your head
Follow a straight line
Measure your steps
Follow these rules
All the cards
Follow rules
Rules are sacred
Enough!
There comes his majesty,
The King.
And her majesty,
The Queen.
Court is in session!
I have an idea...
Let's sing a song in praise of the King!
All hail The Great Land of Cards
Oh hail The Premier of the Cards
Like the Swan King on pristine water
Ethereal...
Scandal!
Scandal!
Scandal!
Court martial!
Contempt of court!
Barbarians!
Who are these?
Foreigners!
Foreigners?
Disruption of order.
Everyone shuffle at once
to maintain discipline.
Shuffle now!
Order number one
of our motherland...
National anthem!
Clubs
Hearts
Spades
Diamonds
Some rise some fall
Some stay firm and still
Some lie down and think
How to serve the motherland
The great land of cards
Uphold the great tradition
Let there be no confusion
Nothing can change our glorious ways
Clubs
Hearts
Spades
Diamonds
You, foreigner!
Yes, Your Royal Highness.
Who are you?
I am a messenger, from the other side.
What message do you bring?
We bring you something you desperately need.
And what could that be?
Trouble.
Did you hear that? Oh king!
Imagine his audacity!
These people want progress.
And can you believe this?
They actually laugh.
They will change the winds
in absolutely no time.
Our wind is still and deep.
The most serious wind.
The might of gods cannot move it.
A stranger has no chance.
No chance. No chance.
Heathen foreigners.
What if they contaminate us?
We should be worried.
We are very worried.
Lightness invites trouble.
Trouble is bad for order.
We may be cursed.
The gods will be displeased.
Perhaps we will suffer from
a deadly virus, eternal laughter.
You, the Jack of Spades.
Order, my King!
You are the culture minister.
I am the culture custodian.
I know when we need to issue a culture alert.
Culture alert!
It is time to raise the alarm!
Culture alert!
Culture alert!
Do you have authority?
Can you pass this motion?
I have the stamp of final authority.
Exercise that power then
and make them submit.
We cannot allow any pollution of our culture!
You, foreigner...
Do you have anything to say?
I do. But... not to you.
To whom, then?
To these princesses.
Well then...
Say it!
Oh you statues of stone
You are beautiful
Oh you silent stranger
You are beautiful
You are beautiful
You are beautiful
Invite this impatient soul
Into the warmth of your heart
Oh beautiful one
Oh beautiful one
Oh beautiful one
Oh you statues of stone
Come, enter the sweet garden
Your eyes wet with longing
Come, enter the sweet garden
Your eyes wet with longing
As the day breaks
Feel the mad pain, as you blossom
Into a new being, oh beautiful one
Into a new being, oh beautiful one
Into a new being, oh beautiful one
Into a new being, oh beautiful one
Oh you statues of stone
You are beautiful
You are beautiful
Let this impatient soul invade
The depths of your heart
Oh beautiful one
Oh beautiful one
Oh beautiful one
Oh beautiful one
Oh you statues of stone
What is this?
How could this happen?
Banish them, O King!
Punish them!
Banish them!
Banish them!
Punish them!
Banish them!
Punish them!
Banish them!
Punish them!
Banish them!
Punish them!
Banish them!
Queen!
What do you think?
Why don't you answer?
Can't you hear me?
What do you think?
Pass the law! Banish them?
No banishment.
No.
No banishment.
No banishment.
No.
No.
No.
No.
My queen.
There is something
strange about you!
I feel very strange
myself.
Listen, all you women.
Don't forget, I am the authority.
Protect our culture.
Respect our morality.
Save our tradition.
Protect our culture.
Respect our morality.
Save our tradition.
Declare emergency at once.
Curfew!
Emergency.
Understood!
Queen...
What do you feel?
Shall we declare
emergency?
If it's a curfew you want,
we women will give you one
on our beds.
Let's see who banishes whom!
We disobey.
We desire.
We dissent.
We disobey.
We desire.
We dissent.
We disobey.
We desire.
We dissent.
How could this happen?
Massacre!
Blasphemy!
Massacre!
Massacre!
Blasphemy!
Massacre!
Blasphemy!
Court dismiss!
Disperse immediately!
Get the...out!
The prince passed on Oracle's message to the Ace of Hearts.
The two friends brought revolution to the Land of Cards.
They said, "We have arrived, to break the law...
We will not remain imprisoned within the iron walls of order.
We will resist and retaliate."
Ace of Hearts...
Will the order collapse?
Yes, it will.
The masks will come off.
Promise?
Promise.
Silence!
Laugh?
Silence!
Laugh?
Rules!
Silence!
Rules!
You got us into this. And now we are cuffed. This is it!
Listen, my friend!
I don't know you. Don't disturb me!
Dear merchant brother...
Listen to me once, I plead you...
Just try to understand the situation...
What are we here for? This is nothing. The cuffs will come off.
Don't worry about these small issues...
Hey! Look...
What did I tell you?
Whisper
Whisper into my ears
Tell me the name that resonates
Whisper, my love, speak
Tell me the name that resonates
Say the word that echoes
In your heart, and dances with every beat
Whisper
Pour it into my ears
Tell me your secret
Hear the whisper of spring
Listen to the call of the green
And you shall find that name
In the pathos of the love bird's song
That name will blossom, drunk with desire
Intoxicate yourself with that smell That madness
Whisper that secret into my ear
What is happening to the Land of Cards, my friend?
What is this crazy wind that the visitors blew in?
My mind is restless, and I am distraught.
Really, my dear Ace of Spades.
Who knew the cards would suddenly lose their identity,
and begin to behave like humans?
It's a shame!
It's a shame!
You tell me, is this any way to behave?
This is so unfair, against our principles.
And that Ace of Hearts. She's the one who started all this nonsense.
Have you noticed how she dresses up?
She looks almost human.
Everyone is talking about her.
She's brought shame to our society!
What's the story?
Heard you guys were talking about us?
Spreading stories of how we are flouting customs.
We are out of step!
So did we say anything wrong?
Look at your face! Your cheeks are red!
Where did that color come from?
And the way you arch your eyebrows,
which foreign storm did you steal its darkness from?
Are these Card customs?
And what do you think, people can't see all this?
Seriously?
So then why are you
hanging with this dainty friend of yours.
Always flirting, naughty girls.
Which Card custom talks about this?
Don't try to be smart.
How dare you behave so shamelessly, being a Card woman?
So what? I am not scared of anyone.
And I don't want to play under the cover like the two of you.
The other day, your moral police, Number Ten,
was taunting me, calling me human.
I told her immediately, it's better
to be a flawed human than a dead card.
Don't be so sure of yourself!
Do you know, you are about to be kicked out of society?
The society of Cards?
I have cut off ties myself.
What will you scare me with?
CULTURE
My Queen...
There's something strange about you.
I feel very strange myself.
Who are these people? Almost unrecognizable...
That's the Ace of Diamonds.
And you?
The Ace of Spades.
What cheek!
Are you trying to be human by any chance?
No. Actually our uniforms fell off.
And how did this happen?
It was a wild wind.
What are you saying?
Our great culture, blown off by some wind?
Tell us, sister, haven't you felt a bit strange lately?
Don't hide it from us.
Do you promise not to tell anyone?
Five!
What's happening to us?
What's wrong?
I'm ashamed
to look at myself.
Fool!
Fool!
Why all these questions now?
What took us so long?
Scandal.
Clubs.
Hearts.
I came to this garden to pick flowers
Looking for flowers I came into this secret forest
But no, I'm not sure
What really was playing in my mind
To pick flowers, I came
But this is not what it seems to be
I lost myself inside of me
I don't understand
This is not what it was supposed to be
What are these desires I feel?
What do these tears mean?
Why do I feel like a river?
I came here to pick flowers
I came here to pick flowers Into this secret garden
Ace of Hearts!
Ace of Hearts!
Here you are!
I've been looking for you high and low.
Why?
What's the matter?
What do you want?
I have come to arrest you, take you back.
Go and tell them, that I have lost myself.
Lost yourself?
Yes.
That's right. Lost.
The person you are searching for
is gone. Forever!
What do you mean?
What audacity!
You've come to the forbidden garden?
Don't you care...
about the rules?
No, I don't care about rules...
Tell me then, whose orders
made those blue clouds gather over your precious town?
I woke up today and these
blue clouds spoke to me.
And the peacocks of The Land of Cards
forever tiptoeing about carefully.
Whose orders made them dance so shamelessly today?
But you? You committed treason.
You broke our customs.
Why are you rushing towards this illusion?
"Perhaps I used to pick flowers
There was such a time
A wind from the east reminded me
The honey bees have come to know
My flower is about to bloom
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
It tells me a strange story
Telling me a story I know so well
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
As light appeared in the distant skies
A flower was born
As morning broke
A flower was born
The honeybee brought me the news of the flower
The news of a new awakening
It tells me a strange story
One that I know so well
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
How do I contain myself?
My mind is aflutter
How do I stay calm?
My mind is aflutter
How do I go on unperturbed?
How do I pretend and bide time anymore?
What magic is this?
That makes me forget everything?
What magic is this?
That makes me lose myself?
Now I weave webs of tunes and words
Floating on a river of love I sing
Whose name is it that I hear in whispers?
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
It tells me a strange story
A familiar one, I know well
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
A honeybee buzzed in my mind
"Perhaps I used to pick flowers
There was such a time
Bring me the red hibiscus
Go and pick some for me
I will color my feet with the red"
"My love, oh beautiful one
I woke to this day
And realized that our Card lives were a dream
And realized that our Card lives were a dream
And now I am awake
And now I am awake
I can feel our new life beckoning us
I can feel our new life
Beckoning us
I can hear the wind shift
It sings the song of change"
May the soft grass you walk on
Feel your incandescent presence
Soaking in your glorious bloom
May the ground you walk on
Intoxicate itself
Soaking in your glorious bloom
Like a fluorescent desire
In the wilderness of my mind
Soaking in your glorious bloom
May the soft grass you walk on
Feel your incandescent presence
May the words that I find for you
Shine like jewels on your ears
Or maybe weave a garland of blood stones
Out of the crimson beads of my desire
May I worship you
Feel your incandescent presence
And soak in your glorious bloom
Break every barrier, break them down
Break every wall, every boundary Every barricade
Break every barrier, break them down
Break every barrier, break them down
Let your mind break free
Unchain your heart
Shame!
How can we tolerate this?
Why this lifeless, inhuman existence?
Do you have the courage?
Yes, I do.
Aren't you afraid of the unknown?
No.
I won't.
It's a long way to freedom, and it will be painful.
There was such a time, we walked through impregnable darkness
a burning torch in my hand I held,
our flag of freedom was flying high.
It's time to rise again.
We have to strike at the heart of the inertia,
break out of this prison,
finish this meaningless repetition.
Rip off the veil.
Shred it to pieces.
Be free.
Be pure.
Be infinite.
Be free.
Be pure.
Be infinite.
Let the joyous flow of life
Flood every parched soul Every hollow existence
Let it all wash off
Let the joyous flow of life
Flood every parched soul Every hollow existence
Let it all disappear
Sing the joyous song of freedom
Shut up!
No, we won't.
Aren't you scared?
No, we aren't. You have to tell us...
why we lived like we did.
Flood every parched, old, let them flood
You are a woman.
You should maintain peace.
We are men.
We will protect culture.
You have fooled us for a long time.
No more of that.
Your cold blooded ways had turned us into inanimate objects.
Disaster!
Who gave you these words of sedition?
The one we are invoking...
the one whose words illuminate our sky.
Because we have heard
The joyous cries of independence
Because we have heard
Desire!
The joyous cries of independence
We want to want!
The call of the new
We don't fear the unknown
Or the impregnable walls of the unseen
We shall crash the closed doors Of our destiny
And find liberation
Break every barrier, break them down
Break them all
Break every wall, every boundary Every barricade
Come then let me tell you What is really going down
People are dead in your timetable town
Don't do this, don't do that Paranoid sick
Selfish city slick, robotic, myopic
Animals everywhere, not a human in sight
Tell me now, animal, where is my right?
Where's my right, where's my right?
So then let us wet this Dry land with blood
Let us harden our spines Let our nerves be steel
With a song of revolution Washing us like a flood
Breaking down walls, doing what we feel
Break it down, break it down Break down the barrier
Break it down, break it down Break down the barrier
Music of a meltdown, murmurs of revolt
Overseas occupation The disappearance of humanity
The march of capitalism And its military rules
Says it's all your fault There's nothing wrong with society
So I stand here with all that I have Waiting for my doom
You will know what's the truth When it all goes boom
in a happy forest, in the happiest tree...
lived the happiest creatures the world has ever known.
The Trolls.
They loved nothing more
than to sing, and dance, and hug.
Dance, and hug, and sing, and dance,
and sing, and hug, and dance...
and hug, and dance, and sing, and hug, and dance, and hug...
But then one day,
the Trolls were discovered by... a Bergen!
The Bergens didn't know how to sing... [SINGING OFF-KEY] or dance...
or even hug.
They were the most miserable creatures in all the land.
And once they saw how happy the Trolls were...
they wanted some of that happiness for themselves.
[ALL GASP] Oh, my God!
Eating a Troll made them feel so happy...
they started a tradition.
Once a year, every year...
the Bergens would gather around the Troll Tree...
to taste happiness...
on a holiday they called...
Trollstice.
Good morning, Daddy!
Daddy, wake up!
Daddy, wake up! Wake up! Wake up, Daddy!
Wake up, Daddy.
Daddy! Daddy! Daddy! Daddy!
Daddy, wake up!
Gristle! What time is it?
It's Trollstice!
Trollstice! Our one day to be happy.
Yeah!
[ALL CHANTING] Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Trolls!
[CHEF] Please give it up for your Keeper of the Trolls...
your Minister of Happiness... your Royal Chef...
Me.
This is a very special Trollstice...
as there is one amongst us who has never tasted a Troll.
Ooh, me! She is talking about me!
Prince Gristle... [GASPS]
...the time has come.
It's okay, son.
I remember being nervous my first time.
Okay.
That's my boy.
[CHEF] It is my sacred duty... to initiate you in the ways of true happiness.
to initiate you in the ways of true happiness.
I have chosen an extra-special Troll, just for you.
The happiest, the most positive...
The happiest, the most positive... sweetest Troll of all.
And because every prince deserves a princess...
I give you the one they call Princess Poppy.
Please make me happy, Princess Poppy.
What are you feeling?
[SPITS] That one's rotten!
It's fake?
Fake? Fake?
They're gone?
Where are they?
Don't worry, sire. We'll find them.
I think I hear something!
[KING PEPPY] Go! Go!
[MALE TROLL 1] We got Poppy!
[MALE TROLL 2] Pass her to me! Here comes Poppy!
Here she is!
Ah! There's my princess.
Da-da. [LAUGHS]
King Peppy, some of the others can't keep up.
No Troll left behind!
Thank you, King Peppy!
[COOKIE] Thank you, King Peppy! [MALE TROLL 3] Thank you!
Thank you, King Peppy.
No Troll left behind!
Daddy, where are they?
Don't just stand there! Make my son happy!
He will be happy!
I don't think King Peppy made it.
[KING PEPPY] When I say no Troll left behind...
I mean, no Troll left behind!
King Peppy, where's Princess Poppy?
Don't worry. She's safe.
No Troll left behind!
[ALL] Aww! But we'll be a lot safer the further we get from Bergen Town.
Go, go! Hurry!
[KING GRISTLE SR.] That's right! Take her away!
[KING GRISTLE SR.] That's right! Take her away! Get her out of my sight! She is hereby banished from Bergen Town forever.
She is hereby banished from Bergen Town forever.
She is hereby banished from Bergen Town forever. We can all be happy again.
We can all be happy again.
I'll find the Trolls!
And shove them down your ungrateful throats.
But, Daddy...
I never got to eat a Troll.
What's gonna make me happy now?
Come here, son.
Nothing.
Absolutely nothing.
You will never, ever, ever, ever be happy.
Never?
Ever.
Here! Right here!
This is where we will rebuild our civilization.
It has everything we need.
Fresh air, clean water...
and sweet acoustics.
♪ Ba de ya Dancing in September ♪ ♪ Ba de ya Never was a cloudy day ♪
♪ Ba de ya Never was a cloudy day ♪
[POPPY] Twenty years ago today, King Peppy made us safe...
and now every Troll is free to be happy and live in perfect...
♪ Harmony ♪ ♪ Harmony ♪ ♪ Harmony ♪
And that's why we hug every hour.
Yep.
I wish it was every half hour.
So do I.
But that wouldn't leave much time for singing and dancing, now would it?
Princess Poppy, do the Bergens still want to eat us?
You bet! [ALL GASP]
But just because it's the only way they'll ever be happy.
[SLURPS] Oh, no. I do taste delicious.
Isn't there anything else to make them happy?
Isn't there anything else to make them happy? Ooh. What about having birthday parties?
Or slumber parties?
Or staring at your parents while they sleep.
But I don't want to be food.
Don't worry. No Troll ever will be.
And that's why we're celebrating
with the biggest party ever.
Everybody's gonna be there.
Everybody?
Everybody.
♪ Everybody, move your hair and feel united ♪
♪ Everybody, shake your hair and feel united ♪
♪ Yeah ♪ ♪ Everybody's coming to the celebration ♪
♪ Everybody's coming to the celebration ♪ ♪ I'ma hook you up with the invitation ♪
♪ I'ma hook you up with the invitation ♪ ♪ Let your hair swing and party with me ♪
♪ No bad vibes Just love, you'll see ♪
♪ Do the D-A-N-C-E One-two-three-four fight ♪
♪ Stick to the B-E-A-T Get ready to ♪ ♪ Ignite ♪
♪ You are such a P-Y-T Catching all the lights ♪
♪ Just easy as A-B-C That's how you make it right ♪
♪ It ain't hard out here When you're doing it right ♪
♪ Put a smile on blast That's the Troll life ♪
♪ And I'm here to help you through it ♪
♪ Come on, Smidge, I know you can do it ♪
Your confidence gives me strength.
[BIGGIE] Okay, Mr. Dinkles. Say, leaves!
Mmm. Something's missing.
[ALL] That's it!
♪ Don't stop, don't stop Don't stop the beat ♪
♪ I can't stop, can't stop Can't stop the beat ♪
♪ I won't stop, won't stop Won't stop the beat ♪ ♪ Go ♪
♪ Everybody, shake your hair and feel united ♪
♪ Ohh ♪ ♪ Sunshine day, everybody's singing ♪
♪ Sunshine day, everybody's singing ♪ ♪ Sunshine day ♪
♪ Everybody, move your hair and feel united ♪
Unbelievable, guys.
Really, really great. Good job.
I could hear you from a mile away!
Good. I was worried we weren't projecting enough.
Poppy, if I can hear you, so can the Bergens.
Oh, boy.
Here we go again. Oh, Branch...
You always ruin everything. Warning us about the Bergens.
No, I don't.
The Bergens are coming! [SCREAMING]
The Bergens are coming! [SCREAMING]
The Bergens are coming! [SCREAMING]
Come on! We haven't seen a Bergen in 20 years.
They're not gonna find us.
No, they're not going to find me,
because I'll be in my highly camouflaged...
because I'll be in my highly camouflaged... heavily fortified, Bergen-proof survival bunker.
You mean you're not coming to the party tonight?
[BOTH] But it's going to be the biggest...
The loudest...
The craziest party ever!
Big? Loud? Crazy?
You're just gonna lead the Bergens right to us!
Are you sure you wanna invite this party pooper to poop on your party?
Yes. I think everyone deserves to be happy.
I don't do happy.
Branch, I know you have happiness inside you.
You just need our help to find it.
♪ Celebrate freedom from the Bergens ♪
What do you say, Branch?
[ALL GASP] Oh, my God.
I wouldn't be caught dead at your party, but you will be.
I wouldn't be caught dead at your party, but you will be. Caught and dead.
[CREEK] Whoa, whoa. Easy, Branch. Easy.
Thank you for providing safe passage, brother.
Namaste.
Okay, first of all, mate, thanks for sharing
Okay, first of all, mate, thanks for sharing your unique perspective on things.
Again.
But, just for now, why don't you try on some positivity, eh?
A little positivity might go with that vest.
Okay, fine.
I'm positive you all are going to get eaten.
Hug time! It is hug time.
[ALL] Hug time!
Oh, that feels good. Our hearts are synchronizing!
♪ I can squeeze you forever ♪
Someday, when the Bergens find us...
and the survival of every Troll is in your hands...
I sure hope the answer is singing, dancing, and hugging...
because that's all you know how to do.
That is not true! Poppy can also scrapbook.
I can't believe you're gonna be queen one day.
Tune out his negative vibrations, Poppy.
They're toxic.
Some folks just don't want to be happy.
I guess.
You guessed right.
Boop.
Whoo! I love you so much!
Whoo! Glitter!
YOLO! [MUSIC CONTINUES]
More glitter!
Turn it up!
Trolls.
[POPPY] Okay, everyone.
I just want to take a moment...
and get a little real.
[BIGGIE] Poppy! She's my friend! I know her!
I'd like to take a second to celebrate our king...
my father...
who, 20 years ago this night... saved all of us from those dreaded...
saved all of us from those dreaded...
Bergens.
Gotcha.
Cupcake?
Run! [ALL CLAMORING]
Run! [ALL CLAMORING] Run! Run!
Poppy, help!
Mr. Dinkles? Has anybody seen Mr. Dinkles? [SQUEAKS]
[YELPING] [POPPY] Biggie!
Blend in! Blend in! Blend in!
[SCARED TROLL] Poppy! [GASPS] [MALE TROLL] Run!
[POPPY] Run, Smidge!
Oh, my God!
[TROLL CHILD] Poppy, help!
Hurry! [SCREAMS] Go! Go! Go!
Cooper!
[CREEK] Everyone, minimize your auras!
[GASPS] Creek! No! Poppy!
Hold on. Poppy!
[CREEK] No! Creek!
Hmm. Bad Bergen! Bad, bad Bergen. Ah... [GASPS] Bad, bad Bergen!
Dad!
Thanks for throwing the biggest... the loudest...
The craziest party ever.
Is it coming back?
What are we gonna do now?
What are we gonna do now? We have to find a new home. Everyone, hurry.
We have to find a new home. Everyone, hurry. We have to leave before the Bergens come back.
We have to rescue them.
No, Poppy, we have to run.
Now, let's go, everyone. Come on!
What about "No Troll left behind"?
I'm sorry, Poppy. That was a long time ago.
And I'm not the king I once was.
Then I'll go. I'll go and save them.
No, Poppy. It's too dangerous.
I have to at least try.
No. You can't go to Bergen Town by yourself.
It's impossible.
[MALE TROLL ON RECORDING] ♪ Celebrate freedom from the Bergens ♪
♪ Celebrate freedom from the Bergens ♪
Branch, you're invited! No! No! No! [SHUSHING]
Branch! Branch! Branch!
Branch, are you in there? Huh?
I'm not going to your party.
The party's over.
We just got attacked by a Bergen.
I knew it.
Branch! Shh.
I have to tell you something. Shh.
I was just gonna... [TUTTING] Shh! Shh!
What? What could be so important that it's worth
What could be so important that it's worth leading the Bergen right to us?
The Bergen's gone!
You don't know that. It could still be out there.
Watching. Waiting. Listening.
No. It left!
It took Cooper, and Smidge, and Fuzzbert...
and Satin, and Chenille, and Biggie, and Guy Diamond, and Creek!
Mmm. Which is why I have to ask you.
Will you go to Bergen Town with me and save everyone?
What? No.
Branch, you can't say no. They're your friends.
Uh-uh-uh. They're your friends.
I'm staying right here in my bunker where it's safe.
Oh, that's great. You're the one guy who knows more about Bergens than anyone...
but when we finally need you,
you just want to hide here forever?
Forever? Pfft. No.
Yeah... I really only have enough supplies down here to last me 10 years...
11 if I'm willing to store and drink my own sweat.
Which I am.
You all said I was crazy, huh?
Well, who's crazy now?
Me. Crazy prepared.
I'm sorry. I should have listened to you.
You told me not to throw the party, and I threw it anyway.
And it's my fault they were taken.
And now I don't know what to do.
Why don't you try scrapbooking them to freedom?
Solid burn, Branch.
Well, thanks anyway.
Hey, anytime, Poppy. See you in 10 years.
Oh, hey, Branch? Just wondering if I could borrow something.
[SIGHS] What?
Your bunker. What?
Okay, everybody. Come on in!
No! No! No! Whoa, wait! Poppy, what are you doing?
You said you have enough provisions to last 10 years, right?
Yes, to last me 10 years. Me!
It'll last them two weeks!
Then I guess I better hurry.
Wait, wait, wait! You won't last a day out there.
And you won't last a day in here.
[ALL CHANTING] Chug, chug, chug!
Solid burn, returned. [GLASS SHATTERING]
[MALE TROLL] Sorry, Branch!
[STAMMERING] Uh, Poppy, wait.
Please be careful.
Don't worry, Dad. I can do this.
I love you, Poppy.
I love you too, Dad.
They grow up so fast.
Bye, everybody! See you soon!
[ALL] Good luck, Princess Poppy!
[SOFTLY] And three, two, one.
Hug time!
No. [ALL CHANTING] Hug time! Hug time! Hug time!
No! No!
[POPPY] With her friends safely hidden...
Princess Poppy set off to rescue her other friends...
confident she'd make it to Bergen Town on her own.
Convinced she'd make it to Bergen Town.
Totally sure she'd make it to Bergen Town.
♪ I really hope I can do it ♪
♪ 'Cause they're all depending on me ♪
♪ I know that I must leave the only home I've ever known ♪
♪ And brave the dangers of the forest ♪
♪ Saving them before they're eaten ♪
♪ I mean, how hard can that be ♪
♪ Looking up at a sunny sky ♪
♪ So shiny and blue and there's a butterfly ♪
♪ Well, isn't that a super fantastic sign ♪
♪ It's gonna be a fantastic day ♪
♪ Such marvelousness it's gonna bring ♪
♪ Got a pocket full of songs that I'm gonna sing ♪
♪ And I'm ready to take on anything ♪
♪ Hooray ♪
♪ Some super fun surprise around each corner ♪
♪ Just riding on a rainbow ♪ ♪ I'm gonna be okay ♪
♪ Hey I'm not giving up today ♪
♪ There's nothing getting in my way ♪
♪ And if you knock, knock me over ♪
♪ I will get back up again ♪
♪ Oh If something goes a little wrong ♪
♪ Well you can go ahead and bring it on ♪
♪ 'Cause if you knock, knock me over ♪
♪ I will get back up again ♪
♪ Oh, get back up again ♪
Ahh! ♪ I'm marching along I've got confidence ♪
♪ I'm cooler than a pack of peppermints ♪
♪ And I haven't been this excited ♪
♪ Since I can't remember when ♪
♪ I'm off on this remarkable adventure ♪
♪ Just riding on a rainbow ♪
♪ But what if it's all a big mistake ♪
♪ What if it's more than I can take ♪
♪ No, I can't think that way ♪
♪ 'Cause I know that I'm really, really, really gonna be okay ♪
♪ Hey I'm not giving up today ♪
♪ There's nothing getting in my way ♪
♪ And if you knock, knock me over ♪
♪ I will get back up again ♪
♪ Oh, if something goes a little wrong ♪
♪ Well you can go ahead and bring it on ♪
♪ 'Cause if you knock, knock me over ♪
♪ I will get back up again ♪
♪ Oh, get back up again ♪
I'm okay!
♪ Oh ♪ ♪ And if you knock, knock me over ♪
♪ You knock, knock me over ♪
♪ I will get back up again ♪
Get back!
Oh no! Poppy?
Hang on!
♪ Get back up again ♪
Branch, my man! You are right on time.
Oh, right. Like you knew I was coming.
Yes! I figured after the third hug time...
getting eaten by a Bergen wouldn't seem so bad.
And I figured there was no way you could do this by yourself.
Guess we were both right.
Hmm. All right. Let's do this!
Sooner we get to Bergen Town,
sooner we can rescue everybody... and make it home safely.
Wait, wait, wait. What's your plan?
I just told you. To rescue everyone and make it home safely.
Okay. That's not a plan. That's a wish list.
Oh! I suppose you have a plan.
First... we get to the edge of Bergen Town without being spotted.
Then, we get inside by sneaking through the old escape tunnels...
which will then lead us to the Troll Tree... right before we get caught,
and suffer a miserable death... at the hands of a horrible, bloodthirsty Bergen!
Hold on a second, are you scrapbooking my plan?
Uh-huh. Yeah. Almost... done!
[RECORDED VOICES] We did it!
There will be no more...
scrapbooking.
[BRANCH] Do you have to sing?
[POPPY] I always sing when I'm in a good mood.
[BRANCH] Do you have to be in a good mood?
[POPPY] Why wouldn't I be?
By this time tomorrow, I'll be with all my friends!
Oh, I wonder what they're doing right now.
Probably being digested.
They're alive, Branch. I know it!
You don't know anything, Poppy.
And I can't wait to see the look on your face... when you realize the world
isn't all cupcakes and rainbows.
'Cause it isn't. Bad things happen... and there's nothing you can do about it.
Hey, I know it's not all cupcakes and rainbows.
But I'd rather go through life thinking that it mostly is...
instead of being like you.
You don't sing, you don't dance. So grey all the time! What happened to you?
So grey all the time! What happened to you? Shh.
A Bergen?
[SOFTLY] Maybe.
There's no Bergen, is there?
You just said that so I'd stop talking.
[SOFTLY] Maybe.
So special.
Good night, Cooper.
Good night, Smidge. Good night, Fuzzbert.
Good night, Satin. Good night, Chenille.
Good night, Biggie. Good night, DJ.
Good night, Guy Diamond.
[CHUCKLES] Good night, Creek.
Boop. And good night, Poppy.
[BRANCH] Don't even think about it.
♪ Stars shining bright above you ♪
Really? Seriously? More singing?
Yes, seriously! Singing helps me relax.
Yes, seriously! Singing helps me relax. Maybe you ought to try it.
I don't sing, and I don't relax.
This is the way I am, and I like it.
I also like a little silence.
♪ Hello Darkness, my old friend ♪
♪ I've come to talk with you again ♪
Hello.
♪ Because a vision softly creeping ♪
♪ Left its seeds while I was sleeping ♪
♪ And the vision that was planted in my brain ♪
♪ Still remains ♪
♪ Within the sound ♪ ♪ Of silence ♪
May I?
[POPPY] So one of these tunnels leads to the Troll Tree.
[BRANCH] That's right.
There's so many of them. I wonder which one.
I don't know.
[MALE VOICE] Choose a hole wisely!
For one will lead to Bergen Town...
and the others, to certain death. [ECHOING]
Who said that?
[MALE VOICE] It was...
me.
Hey, guys, how's it going? Welcome to the root tunnels.
Uh, I just wanted to warn you.
One of these tunnels leads to the Troll Tree...
and the others to [IN DEEP VOICE] certain death, death, death, death...
Do you think you can tell us which is the right one?
You bet!
Great! No, that's okay. We're fine, thanks!
Branch. [CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY] He's trying to help us.
I don't like the looks of him.
I mean, who wears socks with no shoes?
He seems to know what he's talking about.
Okay, fine.
Which way do we go?
First, you have to give me a high five. Then I'll tell you.
What?
Oh, I love high fives. I'll do it.
Oh, I know you'll do it.
But will he?
All right, dumpy diapers, up high!
Nope, I don't do high fives.
Slap it, boss. Not gonna happen.
Party on the top floor. Nope.
Little slappy. Make daddy happy.
That's weird.
Come on, just one little high five.
Oh, no, thanks. I'm good.
Here, just do this...
But with your hand.
Thank you for that demonstration.
Really cleared up exactly what I will not be doing.
Branch, it's a high five.
The others lead to certain death. Get perspective.
[SIGHS] One high five and then you'll tell us which tunnel to take, right?
So easy.
[GRUNTS] Okay, fine!
Ooh. Too slow.
Too slow?
[CHUCKLES] Classic.
No, no. All right.
I'm gonna let you slide with a fist bump.
Whoo. Shark attack! Nom-nom-nom-nom. Jellyfish!
Hand sandwich. Turkey. Snowman. Dolphin.
Helicopter. Last Supper. Monkey in a zoo.
What? Gear shift
Okay, okay, okay. Now I'm thinking we hug.
[BRANCH] That's right. You better run, Cloud! [POPPY] Wait!
I'm gonna tear your little cloud arms...
off your cloud body,
and high five your face with them!
[POPPY] He's just a cloud!
[BRANCH] Get back here! [POPPY] Branch! He can help us!
[BRANCH] Come back!
[POPPY] Run, Cloud Guy! I'm gonna kill you!
Ta-da! We're here!
Phew... You guys are a lot of fun. You know, I gotta go.
Got some cloud stuff to take care of. Catch you on the way back?
Unless... you die. [IMITATES ECHO FADING]
The Troll Tree.
Bergen Town.
[ALL] ♪ I ain't happy I'm feeling glad ♪
♪ I got sunshine in a bag I'm useless ♪
♪ But not for long The future is coming on ♪
♪ I ain't happy I'm feeling glad ♪
I got sunshine in a bag I'm useless ♪
♪ But not for long The future is coming on ♪
♪ Is coming on Is coming on ♪ ♪ Coming on Is coming on ♪ ♪ Is coming on Is coming on ♪
Wow! They're as miserable as you.
Which means they haven't eaten a Troll yet.
Now, come on. Let's go save our friends.
Your friends.
Our friends. Don't fight it.
Oh, Barnabus.
You're my only friend in this whole miserable world.
Dad was right.
I'll never ever, never ever, never be happy.
Never.
[CHEF] Never say never.
Chad. Todd.
Chef, where did you come from?
My father banished you 20 years ago.
Have you been standing behind that plant this whole time?
If only, sire.
No. I've been out in the wilderness...
thinking of nothing but how I let you down.
If only there was some way I could make you feel better.
Well, fat chance!
The only way I'll ever be happy is by eating a Troll...
and that ain't gonna happen, thanks to you.
Ah, but it just might. Thanks to me.
You found the Trolls.
Whoa. [ALL GASPING] So this means I might actually get to be happy!
So this means I might actually get to be happy!
That's right.
Of course, everyone else in Bergen Town will still be miserable...
but that's not your concern.
I am their king, so maybe it kinda is.
What exactly are you proposing?
Bringing back Trollstice? For everyone?
Hmm... Yes! That's exactly what I'm proposing.
Great idea, sire. Absolutely brilliant.
Great idea, sire. Absolutely brilliant. Aren't you smart?
[CHUCKLES] I guess I am.
And I, your loyal Chef, will be right behind you.
Holding a knife. What's that?
Holding a knife, a spoon, a ladle.
I'm your chef, after all!
Yeah, you sure are!
I'm back!
You, scullery maid, what's your name?
Uh, Bridget.
Congratulations, Idget. You work for me now. So you take those dishes downstairs
and you start scrubbing.
Yes, Chef. Thank you, Chef.
Shh. Don't cry, Mr. Dinkles. Shh!
Guys, Mr. Dinkles is really freaking out!
Whoa, whoa! Everyone, we must all remain calm.
[CHANTING] ♪ Comb ♪
That's right. [GASPS] A calm Troll is a tasty Troll.
A calm Troll is a tasty Troll. And you are a key ingredient in my recipe for success.
[TROLLS GASPING] You see... he who controls the Trolls controls the Kingdom.
And I am that "he"!
You're a dude? [GRUNTS]
By this time tomorrow, I'll be queen...
and all of Bergen Town will get exactly what they deserve.
True happiness!
Chad. Todd.
So where do you think our friends are?
If I had to guess, I'd say in a Bergen's stomach.
Could you try to be positive?
Just once. You might like it.
Okay. I'm sure they're not only alive...
but about to be delivered to us on a silver platter.
[SIGHS] Thank you. That wasn't so hard, was it?
[GASPS] Branch!
Hug time? Seriously? [SHUSHING]
Hug time? Seriously? [SHUSHING] Listen.
This is gonna be the best Trollstice ever!
Such a great idea I had.
[CHEF] Yes. Tomorrow is Trollstice, everyone.
And it must be perfect! [ALL] Yes, Chef!
Feels great to be ordering everyone around again.
Branch, look! They're alive?
And on a silver platter, too. We were both right.
And to mark the occasion, Your Highness, look.
I found your old Troll bib.
[KING GRISTLE] Oh, wow! I bet you still fit.
[RASPY] Like a glove!
Oh, you think that's funny?
We'll see who's laughing when I bite your yummy head off.
When I bite all y'alls yummy heads off.
Wait a minute. Chef, this isn't enough yummy heads
Chef, this isn't enough yummy heads
to feed all of Bergen Town.
How are we supposed to have Trollstice if there's not enough Trolls?
Oh, there's plenty more where that came from, sire.
[KING GRISTLE] Are you sure? Because I promised everyone a Troll.
[CHEF] No, no, no, sire! Everything will be fine.
If I were truly worried... would I be willing to do this?
Creek!
Oh, my first Troll!
Go on, eat, King Gristle.
Enjoy a taste of true happiness.
Shouldn't we wait for Trollstice?
[TROLLS] Phew. Sire, every day is Trollstice when you have Trolls.
Yeah, I guess.
But my dad said the first time should be special.
Well, you're the king now. [CREEK GROANING]
Yeah, I am the king.
But I think I should share this moment
with all the kingdom.
Mmm.
Oh, my God! No!
Yes!
Mmm. Idget, lock these Trolls in your room
Idget, lock these Trolls in your room
and guard them with your life.
Yes, Chef.
Yes. Yes, I know.
Branch, we have to save him!
Save him from what? His stomach?
We didn't see him chew. We didn't see him swallow!
Face it, Poppy.
Face it, Poppy. Sometimes people go into other people's mouths...
and they don't come out.
If we go after Creek now, we're going to get eaten.
I'm sorry... but it's too late for him.
Huh. Poppy!
[CHEF] Wash these pots and pans for Trollstice.
The king's inviting everyone.
Except you.
♪ I've been alone with you inside my mind ♪
♪ And in my dreams I've kissed your lips ♪ ♪ A thousand times ♪
♪ I sometimes see you pass outside my door ♪
♪ Hello ♪ ♪ Is it me you're looking for ♪
♪ I can see it in your eyes ♪
♪ I can see it in your smile ♪
♪ You're all I've ever wanted ♪
♪ And my arms are open wide ♪
♪ 'Cause you know just what to say ♪
You're all the idiots! I have to do everything myself.
♪ And you know just what to do ♪
I have to get out of bed,
I'm supposed to put my own clothes on, tie my own shoes. ♪ And I want to tell you so much ♪
♪ I love you ♪
Oh, she's in love with the king.
What are you talking about? Bergens don't have feelings.
Well, maybe you don't know everything about the Bergens.
Now let's go.
Guys! [ALL] Poppy!
[ALL] ♪ Celebrate good times, come on ♪
♪ It's a celebration ♪
♪ There's a party going on right here ♪
No! There is not a party going on right here.
The sooner we get you guys out of here...
The sooner we can save Creek!
What? [GASPS]
Hello? Is it me you're looking for?
I know you're looking for the cupcakes and rainbows here...
but let's face it, Creek's been eaten.
They put him in a taco!
It was horrible.
Sorry, Poppy. Creek's gone.
Poppy, how could you possibly think Creek's still alive?
I don't think he's alive.
I hope he's alive, and that's enough.
How do you always look on the bright side?
There is no bright side here. None!
There's always a bright side.
Hey! Where do you think you're going?
Glitter! No! Get back in your cage!
Chef's gonna be so mad!
[SCREAMING] No!
[POPPY] Bridget, stop!
You're in love with King Gristle.
Um, I don't know what you're talking about.
[GASPS] Uh, excuse me!
That's not mine.
What does it matter?
It's not like he even knows I'm alive.
Bridget, I can help you!
What if there was a way we could both get what we want?
You love Gristle, too?
You'd better back off, girlfriend!
No. Bridget, no.
That Troll King Gristle put in his mouth, that's Creek.
That Troll King Gristle put in his mouth, that's Creek. And I would do anything to save him.
The only problem is...
we can't get anywhere near the king without him eating us.
Oh. But... you can.
You can walk right up to him and tell him how you feel.
As if.
I can't just walk right up to the king.
His Royal Awesomeness would never talk to a scullery maid like me.
What if he didn't know you were a scullery maid?
What if he thought you were this total babe?
What kind of total babe would be dressed like a scullery maid?
I smell like gravy.
What if we made you a new outfit?
I'm thinking... Jumpsuit!
What's the point of a jumping suit if I still have this hair?
[POPPY] Oh, we can fix that.
What's the point of a new outfit and new hair...
if I don't even know what a total babe would ever say?
[POPPY] We can help with that too!
Really? What do you say, Bridget?
You get us Creek,
and we'll get you a date with the king.
Let's do it? A 5, 6, 7, 8...
[ALL] ♪ When you look in the mirror ♪
♪ Let it disappear ♪ ♪ All your insecurities ♪
Wait!
Why isn't this one singing?
[COOPER] Come on, Branch. Sing with us!
[ALL] Yeah, Branch, sing with us!
Oh, no. That's okay.
You don't think this will work?
Oh, no, no. It's not that. I just don't sing.
Branch! No. He's right. This idea is stupid.
He's right. This idea is stupid.
[CRYING] King Gristle will never love me.
[COOPER] Come on. Hey, hey. What's all this?
That's right, Bridget. Just let it all out.
Bridget, let it go. Just have a good cry.
Go, girl!
Okay, now bring it back in.
Reel it in.
Branch, what are you doing? You have to sing!
I told you, I don't sing.
Well, you have to! I'm sorry. I can't.
Well, you have to! I'm sorry. I can't. No, you can. You just won't. Fine. I just won't.
You have to! No!
Yes! No! Why not? Why won't you sing?
Why not? Why won't you sing? Because singing killed my grandma, okay?
Now, leave me alone.
My uncle broke his neck tap dancing once.
How did singing kill your grandma?
What song was she singing?
I was the one singing.
♪ And I need you now tonight ♪
♪ And I need you more than ever ♪
[BRANCH] That day, I was so lost in song...
I didn't hear my grandma trying to warn me.
Branch! Watch out!
Branch! Watch out! ♪ And we'll only be making it right ♪
♪ And we'll only be making it right ♪
Watch out, Branch!
Grandma!
[ALL] ♪ Once upon a time ♪ ♪ There was light in his life ♪
♪ But now there's only love in the dark ♪
♪ Nothing he can say ♪
♪ A total eclipse of the heart ♪
I haven't sung a note since.
I'm so sorry, Branch. I had no idea.
I just assumed you had a terrible voice.
No, no, it was like an angel's.
At least, that's what Grandma used to say.
Whoa, whoa. What are you doing? It's not hug time.
I just thought you could use one.
Okay. Okay, I'll help.
But I'm still not singing.
Okay, people. Hair we go!
[ALL] ♪ You ♪
♪ You gotta let it show ♪
♪ I'm comin' ♪ ♪ Yay ♪
♪ I'm comin' ♪ ♪ All right ♪ ♪ Out ♪
♪ I'm comin' ♪ ♪ I'm comin' ♪ ♪ Out ♪
♪ Yo I'm coming out like the sun after rain ♪
♪ Ready to shine ♪
♪ No time to be playin' Feelin' good ♪ ♪ Gonna get get what I, what I want ♪
♪ Gonna show every-everybody ♪ ♪ How I, how I flaunt ♪
♪ Look at me now, my confidence is soaring ♪
♪ Dudes be impressed with the points I'm scoring like ♪
♪ That ain't boring ♪
♪ And it just don't quit Watch the king drop his jaw ♪ ♪ When I'm shaking my hips I'm saying ♪
♪ She's coming out ♪
♪ She's comin' ♪
♪ It's time to take a stand ♪ ♪ Hey ♪ ♪ And show the world that I'm comin' out ♪
♪ And show the world that I'm comin' out ♪
♪ She's comin' out ♪
[KING GRISTLE] No, no, no! It's all wrong!
I'm the king who's bringing back Trollstice.
I need a bib to match.
I look like a child in this one. Oh, sire!
I need something elegant, sophisticated. You know, a man's bib.
You know, a man's bib.
Oh, he's so beautiful.
And so are you.
Oh, he'll know that I'm just a scullery maid. No, no, no!
I got to get out of here.
I'll be right here for you, Bridget. We all will.
You'll tell me what to say, right?
Of course, I will.
Of course, I will.
Just wait until we get inside.
Just wait until we get inside. Ooh, Sire! I believe I have the perfect bib!
Ooh, Sire! I believe I have the perfect bib!
It better be! Trollstice is tomorrow night.
I mean, I look good. But I have to look great.
Right.
[GASPS] It's got a wing-dingle on it!
Oh, Your Majesty! Look at you! Such a big, big boy.
I love it!
[BRIDGET] I think you look fat.
What?
P-H, phat. Then strike that pose.
P-h, Phat!
Ew...
Hot lunch!
Total honesty from a total babe.
And who might you be?
Your name is, um...
Lady! Glitter?
Sparkles! Seriously?
My name is Lady Glittersparkles, seriously.
Well, my lady Glittersparkles. [CHUCKLES]
Would you care to join me for an evening...
at Captain Starfunkle's Roller Rink and Arcade?
Would I! Would I?
Yes! You'd be delighted.
Yes! You'd be delighted.
Oh, indeed, I would.
When are you gonna ask him about Creek?
We have to warm him up first. Don't you know anything about romance?
Of course! I'm passionate about it.
Really?
Don't you know anything about sarcasm?
I think I had a sarcasm once.
And I'll take one of everything, Bibbly.
Things are gonna get messy. [BELLS JINGLING]
Enjoy your pizza. Here's your tokens.
Ooh, so fancy. [FLIRTATIOUS CHUCKLE]
Good thing I brought my appetite.
You are fantastic!
Bridget! Compliment him back!
I like your back.
No! I meant say something nice about him.
But I do like his back.
Poppy, help her.
Your eyes... They're...
Ugh... Ooh!
Your ears... Your eyes... ears... Nose!
Skin! Neck!
Skin, neck, ears, nose... face, back of your head. Are you okay?
face, back of your head. Are you okay?
♪ Your teeth ♪
Teeth.
What's going on? Are you making fun of me?
Your eyes!
They're like... two pools, so deep...
I fear if I dive in...
I might never come up for air.
I might never come up for air.
And your smile... The sun itself turns jealous...
and refuses to come out from behind the clouds...
Knowing it cannot shine half as bright.
I kinda do have a nice smile, don't I?
Yes, you do.
I can't believe I'm about to say this...
Guys, she's going rogue!
But being here with you today...
makes me realize that true happiness is possible.
Whoa. It is!
True happiness is a lot closer than you think.
It's right here.
Mmm. That's pretty, I guess.
What do you think now?
[GASPS] Creek?
I knew he was alive!
Mr. Dinkles, he's alive!
Oh, snap!
You just talked!
I've been savoring this little guy. [GASPS] Help!
Uh... Mercy!
Tell me, my lady, will I be seeing you at the Trollstice feast?
Well, duh. I'll be working.
It!
It. Working it. You know...
workin' it.
Yeah! You're not kidding, you will.
Because you're gonna be there as my plus one.
Really?
Assuming you'll say yes?
Yes! Yes!
Yes!
Yes! Meantimes, maybe we should find some other way to...
work up an appetite.
Oh, yeah? What did you have in mind?
Your Majesty.
You seem to be having... fun.
Oh, I am! Meet the lovely Lady Glittersparkles.
You remind me of someone.
She's, uh, gonna be my plus one.
Oh, I see.
For a moment there I was concerned you were changing the plan.
Well, this won't be a problem at all, Your Highness.
I'll just get my worthless scullery maid to get...
another place setting ready for the lovely... Lady Glittersparkles.
Lady Glittersparkles.
[KING GRISTLE] Put her place setting next to mine.
I want her right by my side... Hey! Lady Glittersparkles?
Hey! Lady Glittersparkles? Lady Glittersparkles!
I'll see you at Trollstice, yeah?
[SOFTLY] I miss you already.
I think the king really likes us.
I know, right?
That was the greatest day of my life!
Thanks, Poppy.
Thanks to all of you!
Even you, I guess.
I just never thought something like that could happen to me.
And it just did!
I'm so excited I could just scream.
Oh, I could scream too! Creek is alive! Yay! [ALL CHEERING]
Branch, what's wrong?
Nothing. I thought we were celebrating.
That's your happy shout?
It's been a while.
Well, you're gonna have plenty of practice,
because we're gonna save Creek...
and life will be all cupcakes and rainbows again.
Up top!
Too slow.
[CHENILLE] Yes! [SATIN] I knew it!
Okay, everybody... let's go save Creek.
let's go save Creek.
No! No! You can't leave.
Lady Glittersparkles is gonna be the king's plus one at dinner.
The dinner where they're serving Troll?
Yeah, I think we're gonna have to skip that one.
No! No, you have to help me be Lady Glittersparkles.
I need you.
You don't wanna pretend to be someone you're not forever!
Then how about just for tomorrow?
Bridget, you don't need us anymore.
You and the king can make each other happy!
That's impossible!
Only eating a Troll can make you happy.
Everyone knows that!
I wish I'd never gone on this stupid date!
Bridget...
Just go! Get out of my room. Leave me alone.
Please, listen. [CHEF] Bridget!
We've gotta go. Bridget...
[CHEF] What's going on down there?
Bridget, scrub that dish!
The king's bringing a plus one.
Yes, Chef. [SOBBING]
We can do this, Barnabus.
I just have to lose 30 pounds in the next eight hours.
There it is!
♪ I feel good I feel good ♪ ♪ I feel good I feel good ♪ ♪ I feel good ♪
Creek, we'll have you out of there in a second.
Hurry! It's stuck!
Run!
♪ I feel love ♪
Hey, guys! Over here! [GROWLING]
Everyone, get in! Let's go.
Branch, give him to me. Go! Just go!
[BRANCH] Everybody hold on!
[BIGGIE] Hold it steady, guys.
Satin, Chenille, sharp right!
Let's do it!
Guy Diamond, glitter him!
Eat glitter!
Look! [ALL SCREAMING]
Hold on!
Creek! [ALL GASP]
Branch! [GRUNTS]
[BIGGIE] We got you!
Gotcha!
No! He can't be gone.
I'm sorry, Poppy. We're too late.
[CHEF] Actually... your timing is perfect.
Sorry, but I can't have you leaving before tomorrow's dinner.
A dinner to which you are all invited.
And when I say all...
I mean every Troll in Troll Village.
You'll never find them. Not where they're hiding.
Oh, you're right. I couldn't find them.
But I could with someone they know.
Someone they trust.
Someone... like this guy.
Creek! You're alive!
[DJ SUKI] He's so cool.
He's selling us out!
I'm sure there's a reasonable explanation.
At least give him a chance.
Thank you, Poppy.
I'm selling you out.
No, stop! No, wait!
You better explain yourself, Creek!
As I was about to accept my fate...
I had, what I can only describe as...
a spiritual awakening.
I don't wanna die!
Don't eat me.
Eat someone else. Anyone else. Everyone else. But not me!
But the king wants to be happy now.
Wait! Wait! There must be some other way.
I'll do anything.
No! Creek, please don't do this.
Believe me... I wish there was some other me-not-getting-eaten way.
I wish there was some other me-not-getting-eaten way.
But there isn't.
And now I have to live with this for the rest of my life.
At least you get to die with a clear conscience.
So, in a way... you could say...
I'm doing this for you.
Boop!
Listen. It's Poppy's cowbell!
My baby did it! Poppy did it!
Creek?
[ALL CHANTING] Trollstice! Trollstice! Trollstice!
Now let's prepare the main course.
The Trolls!
[GASPS] Poppy?
Poppy! Oh, thank goodness you're all right.
I'm doing great.
I got everybody I love thrown in a pot.
Thanks for asking.
Poppy? Are you being... sarcastic?
Yes!
Oh, my God!
I'm sorry. I don't know why I thought I could save you.
All I wanted to do was keep everyone safe, like you did, Dad.
But I couldn't.
Poppy.
I let everyone down.
[SIGHS] But, Poppy...
You were right, Branch.
The world isn't all cupcakes and rainbows.
[SOFTLY] Poppy.
[BRANCH] ♪ You with the sad eyes ♪
♪ Don't be discouraged ♪
♪ Oh, I realize ♪
♪ It's hard to take courage ♪
♪ In a world full of people ♪
♪ You can lose sight of it all ♪
♪ The darkness inside you ♪ ♪ Can make you feel so small ♪
What are you doing? The king is waiting.
Get those Trolls out there!
Sorry, Chef.
Oh, you are sorry.
♪ Show me a smile then ♪
♪ Don't be unhappy, can't remember when ♪
♪ I last saw you laughing ♪
♪ This world makes you crazy ♪
♪ And you've taken all you can bear ♪
♪ Just call me up ♪
♪ 'Cause I will always be there ♪
♪ And I see your true colors ♪ ♪ Shining through ♪
♪ I see your true colors ♪ ♪ And that's why I love you ♪
♪ So don't be afraid ♪
♪ To let them show ♪
♪ Your true colors ♪
♪ True colors are beautiful ♪
♪ I see your true colors ♪ ♪ Shining through ♪ ♪ True colors ♪
♪ I see your true colors ♪ ♪ That's why I love you ♪
♪ So don't be afraid ♪
♪ To let them show ♪
♪ Your true colors ♪
♪ True colors ♪ [SQUEAKS]  ♪ Are beautiful ♪
♪ Like a rainbow ♪
♪ Like a rainbow ♪
Thank you!
No. Thank you.
For what?
For showing me how to be happy.
Really? You're finally happy?
Now?
I think so.
Happiness is inside of all of us, right?
Sometimes, you just need someone to help you find it.
What's gonna happen now, Princess Poppy?
I don't know.
But I know we're not giving up.
No. This is it, Mr. Dinkles. This is it.
Poppy! Bridget?
[BERGEN CHANTING] Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! What are you doing?
What are you doing? I can't let them eat you.
But... Come on! You gotta go!
Hurry! Go, go, go! Get out of here!
No! Bridget, if you go in there without us,
you know what they'll do.
I know.
But, Bridget...
But, Bridget... It's okay.
It's okay, Poppy.
You showed me what it feels like to be happy.
I never would have known if it wasn't for you.
And I love you for that.
I love you too, Bridget.
[CHEF] Bridget!
Go on, now. You have to hurry!
Come with us.
And make it easier for them to find you?
No way! You have to go. Now!
Bridget!
Bye, Poppy.
[ALL CHANTING] Trolls! Trolls! Trolls!
Wait! Chef, shouldn't we wait for Lady Glittersparkles?
Oh, you are absolutely right.
Now, everyone, there will be no Trolls until...
Now, everyone, there will be no Trolls until... the king's plus one has arrived.
the king's plus one has arrived. [BERGEN 1] Boo!
[BERGEN 2] We've waited long enough!
Unless...
Unless, what?
Well, unless she doesn't come at all.
But that's crazy talk. Who wouldn't wanna be with you?
Yeah. Maybe we should start.
[ALL CHANTING] Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! [ALL] Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Yeah! Whoo-hoo!
Trolls! Trolls! Trolls! Yeah! Whoo-hoo! [POPPY] Go! Come on. Hurry!
Come on. Everybody, let's go.
Come on. Everybody, let's go. No Troll left behind!
Watch your step.
Poppy?
Bridget just ruined her life to save ours.
It's not right!
She deserves to be happy as much as we do.
They all do!
All right, everybody. Who's ready to eat Trolls?
[SIGHS] King Gristle...
there is only one thing that will ever make you happy...
and only one Bergen who can provide it.
Bon appetit! [GASPS]
They're gone!
[ALL] Gone?
They're gone?
what did you do?
You ate them!
You greedy, greedy pig.
No! I...
[BERGEN 1] She ruined Trollstice!
Guards, lock her up! [ALL CLAMORING]
[BERGEN 2] Let's get her!
Lady Glittersparkles?
What?
But how? Why?
Why did you do this?
Because she didn't think you would want someone like her.
I mean, hello?
Is it me you're looking for?
I don't think so.
Guards, finish her!
Oh! No.
[TROLLS GASPING] Wait! King Gristle, when you were with Bridget,
King Gristle, when you were with Bridget,
you were feeling something, weren't you?
Yeah, I was.
I just thought it was too much pizza.
Me, too.
That feeling? That was happiness.
[ALL] What?
But you have to eat a Troll to be happy.
Everyone knows that! Don't you?
But King Gristle's never eaten a Troll in his life, right?
No, I haven't.
Yet, here I am.
My belly empty...
and my heart full.
[CHEF] Don't listen to her!
There's only one way to be happy.
My way! [YELPING]
No!
With me in charge...
I'll serve you Troll every day of the year.
With me as queen...
all of life will be a never-ending feast of happiness!
Come on, eat! Eat!
No! [ALL GASPING] Happiness isn't something you put inside.
It's already there.
Sometimes you just need someone to help you find it.
Can I really be happy?
I want to be happy! And me!
And what about me?
Do you really think I can be happy?
Of course!
It's inside you! It's inside of all of us!
And I don't think it.
I feel it!
♪ I got this feeling inside my bones ♪
♪ It goes electric wavy when I turn it on ♪
♪ And if you want it inside your soul ♪
♪ Just open up your heart Let music take control ♪
♪ I've got that sunshine in my pocket ♪ ♪ Got that good soul in my feet ♪
♪ I feel that hot blood in my body ♪ ♪ When it drops ♪
♪ Ooh ♪ ♪ I can't take my eyes up off it Moving so phenomenally ♪
♪ I can't take my eyes up off it Moving so phenomenally ♪
♪ The room on lock The way we rock it ♪ ♪ So don't stop ♪
♪ Under the lights, when everything goes ♪
♪ Nowhere to hide when I'm getting you close ♪ ♪ Can't stop, won't stop ♪
♪ When we move well you already know ♪
♪ Let's go, let's work ♪ ♪ So just imagine, just imagine, just imagine ♪
♪ Nothing I can see but you when you dance, dance, dance ♪
♪ Feel the good-good creeping up on you ♪ ♪ So just dance, dance, dance, come on ♪
♪ All those things I shouldn't do ♪ ♪ But you dance, dance, dance ♪
♪ And ain't nobody leaving soon So keep dancing ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ So just dance, dance, dance ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ So just dance, dance, dance ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ So just dance, dance, dance ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ So keep dancing, come on ♪
Ow! My eyes!
Let's do it! ♪ I can't stop the ♪
♪ I can't stop the I can't stop the ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪ ♪ Nothing I can see but you when you dance, dance, dance ♪ ♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ Feel the good creeping up on you ♪ ♪ So just dance, dance, dance ♪ ♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ All those things I shouldn't do ♪ ♪ But you dance, dance, dance ♪ ♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪ ♪ And ain't nobody leaving soon So keep dancing ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ Got this feeling in my body ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ Got this feeling in my body ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ Wanna see you move your body ♪ ♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ I can't stop the feeling ♪
♪ Got this feeling in my body, come on ♪
Our new queen!
Go, Queen Poppy! Way to go, Poppy!
You did it! Alright, Queen Poppy!
She's my friend! I know her! ♪ So just dance, dance, dance ♪
I know it's not officially hug time yet, but...
Now that I am queen, I decree that hug time is all the time.
I decree that hug time is all the time.
-You must live. -Mom.
Live and take revenge.
It's so annoying. It's so annoying that I want to die.
Can one die out of annoyance?
Scumbags.
-He's here. -Hi.
Kidnapping girls who aren't even 20 years old.
They rape, traffick, and even murder them.
They're hustling big time.
Recently, Hwalbindang shut down this whole organization
and returned all the kidnapped children back to their parents.
They got screwed over. Of course they want revenge.
Today, I'll have you meet the head of Hwalbindang.
-He's here. -Already?
He's inside.
The Hong Gil-dong you were looking for.
I happen to have some questions I want to ask you as well.
Damn it.
Gosh, too noisy.
Why are you guys keep looking for me?
It's so annoying.
Hey, why are you sitting there?
Twenty.
Nineteen.
Jang Gil-seong's brother, Jang Dae-seong.
Yeonnam-dong, Apartment Sinseong 102-403.
-What? -Yang Jin-tae's mom, O Yeong-ja.
Hospital visit for a gastric ulcer.
Jeong Ho-il's wife, Kim Gyeong-suk, went to her parents' house two days ago.
Starting now, if I pause for more than 20 seconds,
your family members will die.
They have guns in their mouths right now.
I'm sure none of them were able to be reached today.
What are you talking about?
One. I'll kill Jang Dae-seong first.
Enough.
-Did you hear that? -Yeah.
-That's Dae-seong's voice. -All of you, guns on the table.
If you do that, I'll let you hear their voices.
Twenty, nineteen, eighteen...
My mother is seriously ill. Gil-seong!
What should we do now?
Give him the gun.
Let us hear their voices now!
Why did you get my innocent brother involved?
-Why Gyeong-suk-- -No! Shut up!
Two, one.
Don't believe in everything I say. Because they all are lies.
Gosh, so noisy.
You guys ever heard of Kim Byeong-deok?
Ever heard of him or met him?
I heard the name came out from one of your mouth.
Anyone who gives me useful information is free to go.
Me. I know Kim Byeong-deok.
Where is he?
What? Well, you know.
-He's in Yeonsin-- -I'm an expert in deception.
And I'm good at detecting lies, too.
-I'm sorry. -Stop lying. You're pissing me off.
We're going to start cutting your fingers now.
Starting with Jeong Ho-il.
-Both of you can cut them for him. -Please spare me.
"Please spare me"?
I'm sure you're used to hearing that.
I'll ask again once Jeong Ho-il is done. Just shut up and cut.
If you try to delay or open your mouth,
I'll blow your head one by one.
How dare you
go up against Hong Gil-dong.
Name, Kim Byeong-deok.
They said he's blind in his left eye. Seems like they're right.
He's in Gangwon-do, Hwacheon-gun, Dogye-myeon.
-Myeongwol-ri 94-3. -Myeongwol-ri 94-3. I know.
President Hwang, I'll be back before dawn.
That's after I kill Kim Byeong-deok.
Please stick to the hit list.
-And use torture only when necessary. -Enough.
Understand? Don't make innocent people suffer--
My name is Hong Gil-dong.
A private detective of an illegal detective agency, Hwalbindang.
Even though it's a dangerous job dealing with all sorts of scumbags,
I've been handling it quite well.
And it's been rather easy.
Nobody knows me.
Even I don't know who I really am.
The one thing I remember is my name.
Anyway, I'm going to meet someone very special today.
I always manage to find people that I look for in a day.
But I wasted 20 years looking for this guy.
I found out his name only recently.
The only person that's left in my fragmented memory.
The man with a blind left eye, Kim Byeong-deok.
Wait for me.
I'm coming.
MYEONGWOL-RI
What the hell?
Why did you give me so much rice?
-That's mine. -Is it yours?
I going to eat a lot.
Sorry, I didn't know that.
I made this seasoned bracken. Try some.
It tastes bad. I want to eat sweet and sour pork.
Tomorrow, I'll fry eggs for you.
Give it one bite.
Good girl.
Look at my darling eat.
Dong-i, are you still collecting bottles and selling them?
Why don't you listen to me? Only beggars do that.
You did it too. How is that for beggars?
That doesn't mean you get to do it.
But if I save a little more, I can buy your eyeglasses.
Dong-i, you need to study hard. Stop talking about eyeglasses.
If you do it again, I'll go to your school and report to them.
Promise me.
Don't do it again, okay?
Tomorrow, we need to pack up, so come straight home.
Mal-sun, you too. Don't play at school.
I don't want to move.
If we move, we can go eat some sweet and sour pork together.
My goodness.
No one's after your food. Eat slowly.
It's okay.
Hang in there. Dong-i will bring you some water.
Gosh, you are so impatient.
Were you that hungry?
Why didn't you eat slowly?
My sweetie.
Stay still. Let me wipe it.
Grandpa. There's someone outside.
Dong-i and Mal-sun.
-Yes? -Yes?
I might have to go outside for a moment.
Don't worry and wait for me. I will come back in a minute.
Where are you going this late?
I'll be gone just for a second.
Don't report to the police.
Never report to the police.
Even if the police come here, don't tell them anything. Okay?
Hurry up and hide in the backyard.
Grandpa, what is it?
Just do as I say.
Take Mal-sun and hurry up.
Old man, why don't you come with us?
Tell whoever sent you here to come see me directly.
If there's no other business, get out of here.
Gosh, I don't have time for this.
Old man, just come with us.
You scumbag!
Why did you push me?
We wanted to take you peacefully.
Dong-i.
-Grandpa! -Grandpa!
We're meeting him at the factory, right?
What? Gosh.
What is that?
Damn it.
Don't get out of the car.
Does he have to do this on this narrow street?
-Looks like he's leaving soon. -A flat tire, perhaps.
What is this?
Gangwon 5, 7102
Kim Byeong-deok, 94-3.
RENTAL AGREEMENT
MYEONGWOL PHARMACY
That old man was Kim Byeong-deok.
Why now?
Who are you?
My enemy's grandchildren.
I'm disgusted.
Who are you, mister?
He looks like a policeman.
Why is a policeman here? We didn't report anything.
Grandpa said not to report to the police.
Looks like he is a bad guy!
Sorry for not introducing myself.
I am a government employee from Chuncheon who's responsible for registration.
Registration Department?
Dongjin Elementry School, class 5-12, Kim Dong-i.
Class 1-8, No. 33, Kim Mal-sun.
Your grandfather's full name is Kim Byeong-deok.
Suffering from arthristis and diabetes from trash picking.
And you guys are moving soon, right?
How do you know that?
This house has a deposit of 100,000 won with a monthly rent of 20,000 won.
This village will soon be developed.
And according to the clause 54 of the land registration
and compensation law, the area needs to be vacant by October.
So I need to meet your grandpa today.
I know your grandpa very well.
Dong-i, you got perfect scores in three tests. He was so proud of you.
Now you understand, right?
I got perfect scores in my tests, too!
What's up with this kid?
Anyway, there's a chance I can help you to find your grandpa.
-Help us to find Grandpa? -I can find him in an hour.
But both of you need to come with me.
But our grandpa told us to wait here.
Then I guess I'll come back next time.
Didn't you say you were going to help us to find him?
You'd never understand
why I need both of you.
That route leads to three possible locations.
One towards the main street of Gagok-ri, downtown of Yongdam-ri,
or
to this abandoned factory at the end of the road
that leads to a remote mountain.
Straw.
Gunshot.
Choi Tae-jeong.
He's calling someone.
Look up for registration number. "Gangwon 5, 7102."
What's this car--
Head of Hwalbindang, President Hwang Gye-suk.
She does numerous charitable work with her immense wealth.
Twenty years ago, her father took me in when I was an orphan.
So we grew up together.
"We work for justice."
As per her late father's will,
she organized a detective agency and put me as the head.
But to be honest,
I'm not that into it.
TELEPHONE DIRECTORY
They want to spread the fear of war.
For money and power, Gwangeunhoe is ready to do anything.
You sound quite delusional.
You're so passionately talking about such a baseless story.
Ma'am.
There's no such thing as Gwangeunhoe.
Ma'am.
-Ma'am! -What?
What do you need?
Oh, goodness.
So frustrating.
I forgot the price.
Wait a minute.
How much is the caramel candy?
It's 200 won,
but because you're handsome, just pay 100 won.
Keep the change.
Is there anyone who raises cattle?
The footsteps and straws from the barn.
Wearing slippers in this cold weather.
His house must be nearby.
Kidnapping?
Damn it.
So what? Do you have proof?
Where did you park your car? You have the car key, right?
What the...
You seems to know something.
Does Chief know you're here?
He's a cop.
Don't make assumptions. I didn't do anything.
I'm not making assumptions.
This evening at 7:08 p.m.,
You, Kim Jin-ho, and Choi Tae-jeong
drove a car with plate number 5-7102 and kidnapped Kim Byeong-deok.
Then you passed him off to your chief for some money.
Then you went out for a drink and drove back home when you got cold and tired.
Jin-ho, don't you remember me?
-What? -I was changing the tires on the road.
How else could a detective like me know all about this
and block that road earlier?
We've been tracking the chief for a while.
If you talk nonsense one more time, I won't be asking politely anymore.
Think before answering me.
Who do you think you're lying to?
I was just the driver.
The chief will be calling you now.
Just answer it and be cool.
You just have to tell me where the car is.
Where's the car?
The place where we met yesterday.
Come out. Give me the car key.
Where's the place?
That place is...
-Mister! -Mister!
-You need to go outside-- -Mr. Registration!
Found him.
Did you find my grandpa?
What are you doing?
This man is from the Registration Department.
I'm Kim Mal-sun.
-My grandpa-- -What the...
Are you really a detective?
I knew it. Who are you?
-First, tell me where the place is. -Get out.
Get out of here if you dont want to be dead.
Hurry up and get the hell out.
Mister, why did you lie and tell him that you're a detective?
Dong-i, he's weird.
-Mal-sun. -Why did you bring this?
What if someone steals this?
Grandpa took these pictures for us.
I almost had it, but they blew it.
Should I just tie them up and throw them in the trunk? What?
You have only two left? Don't lose them.
He's going somewhere.
What? No.
Can we come with you?
-No. -Let's go together!
Gosh. Those brazen kids.
I'll deal with them later.
A cop kidnaps someone instead of making an arrest.
They didn't kill him, which means there's no grudge or revenge.
It's not like they can get money out of that old man.
It's definitely not for money.
The old man probably knows something, or has something.
Someone came to me.
Who?
I don't know. He asked me this and that.
So I sent him away.
-Mister! -Mister!
-Damn it. -Mr. Registration!
What is that sound?
-Did you walk here? -Yes, why?
Damn it!
Where are you, Mister?
How could I miss that?
Kim Byeong-deok, I'll catch you.
And with my own hand...
Where's my caramel candy?
Did I drop it while running?
Nothing's going right. I don't even have money.
Mister,
where are we going?
Is Grandpa doing okay?
-Hey. -Yes?
Stop talking.
Wait.
Is that money?
I wonder what that was.
Hold on. Welcome!
The largest room with a phone for one night, please.
I knew I'd have guests today.
The magpies kept chirping this morning.
That'll be 8,500 won.
Oh.
Okay.
Shabby second-hand furniture.
Opened just a few days ago.
With a 1,000 won discount.
Removed tattoo.
He's ashamed of his old gang life.
Is it 7,000 won then?
And he's downright stupid.
I can just give you 1,000 won back, right?
By the way, you are such a cutie-pie.
Hold on.
I actually bought these
to stop smoking, but I'll give these to you instead.
Take these.
Is she your daughter?
-Or niece? -No.
My grandpa got kidnapped and this man is trying to--
Say thank you to this mister. Good girl.
What is he talking about?
Gosh.
-I'm a public prosecutor. -What?
I'm protecting the victim's family.
I'm not supposed to be taking care of these things,
but it's a long story.
I'm new, so I'm just following orders.
Anyway, just pretend you didn't hear anything.
Oh, he's a prosecutor.
Kids, let's go uptairs.
Grandpa's kidnapped?
Oh my.
A prosecutor?
Wolgye-ri and Gudam-ri are out of range.
He didn't even blink when he lied.
Why did he have to lie?
Mister, you haven't slept since yesterday. You should get some rest.
Hello, may I speak to Tae-jeong?
Tae-jeong? Who's that?
Hello, may I speak to Choi Tae-jeong?
There's no one by that name.
Oh, it's you.
Is he in there? Oh, hi.
I have something to tell you.
I'm busy.
Sorry for disturbing you.
I'm a bit impatient.
I used to be a gangbanger, you see.
But now of course, I'm back on the right track.
I don't even go near it.
Here's what I'm trying to say. So I opened this inn in a hurry.
Let me be honest.
-Everything here is pre-owned. -I brought a notebook.
Good girl.
I found them from some cave with a huge door.
I don't know who built the cave, but it looks quite odd.
And when you go inside,
you can find furniture like these all over the place.
So what?
Oh, where was I going with this?
Oh, yes.
So I went there to get a couple chairs.
And I saw something strange in there.
Hello? Is Tae-jeong working today?
Tae-jeong? He's not here today. Who's this?
Of course he's not there.
-Let's talk later. -Okay.
Where are you going?
Stay here quietly.
We will come with you and be quiet!
If they are under your protection, you should take them with you.
Lubricant stain on the gloves. Oily nails.
He must've been working here until yesterday.
TAEGWANG REPAIR
The long-haired Choi Tae-jeong.
What the heck?
Oh, yeah. I fell and hurt my knee yesterday.
My gosh.
Don't go on your own like that.
-You two, come here. -What's up?
Hey, do you want to find your grandpa or not?
Of course we do.
I won't be able to if you keep behaving like this.
If you can't help, at least try not to slow me down.
But you lie all the time.
This is how this works!
Will you stop if you know nothing about it?
Watch your mouth if you want to live longer.
That gave me goosebumps.
Seven fourteen.
Is he still here?
This will be the first election we are holding in the 80's.
The candidates...
Can I help you?
My staff is off today.
Well, youngsters these days don't appreciate their work.
A pessimist that I hate the most.
I should shut down the shop.
-I've had enough of this place. -The 24th.
It's not like I'm gonna get rich.
Who was coming on the 24th again?
The governor. He has something important to announce
and asked everyone to attend.
Things are already depressing enough.
What's he going to blab about at that late hour?
By the way, you don't seem like you're from around here.
How did you know about the 24th?
I heard about it, but it slipped my mind.
That car outside, number 7102. When did it get here?
Someone left it here about ten minutes ago.
Why are you asking?
Ten minutes ago would be 7:05 p.m.
Could I see the estimate?
I'm from the insurance company--
Actually,
He's a detective. And he's in the homicide division.
What's a homicide division?
A higher class detective.
Please, shut up!
Why? Didn't you tell me to act like this?
I'm trying to help you.
She's so cute.
Actually, I'm a police officer.
Can you give me the contact info for the car?
What's a cop doing here--
My grandpa was kidnapped by some bad guys.
-And he's helping us find him. -You can't say that.
He told us not to say that.
Oh, right.
Their grandpa was kidnapped?
-Yes. -Their grandpa?
-Yes. -That car is the criminal's?
Yes, so hurry up and give me the contact info already!
Mister, how did you find the criminal so fast?
You're awesome.
Isn't he, Mal-sun?
Yeah, I guess he is, but there's still something fishy.
You two.
-Do you think I'm a good guy? -Yes.
You guessed incorrectly. You're completely off.
I'm warning you for the last time.
If you try to butt in again, then I'll--
Are you really a Registration Department employee?
I am.
It really is true.
So please don't go around and talking nonsense.
But maybe all these people can help us later.
They can't help us, so shut your mouth!
Here, Mister.
You kept looking at these. Did you want some?
Seriously!
Please! Wait here!
What's in the bag?
Nothing's in here.
I can't get through these kids.
I should give them a taste of fear.
Where's Kim Byeong-deok?
Det. Kang Seong-il of Force Team 1 at Hwacheon Police Division.
I'm not sure what you guys are up to.
Just hand Kim Byeong-deok over and I'll let you off the hook.
I would normally teach you guys a lesson.
But I have something personal to take care of.
Why are there so many papers?
Why are you looking for Kim?
What are you saying, you idiot?
-That's none of your business. -You are Hong Gil-dong, aren't you?
Looking for Kim Byeong-deok
to get even?
-Who are you? -I thought you can't remember the past.
But I guess you didn't forget his face.
Right. How can one forget that incident?
-What are you doing? -Don't move.
If you want to shoot, aim it at me.
Try to guess where I know you from.
If you make it out of here alive, ask yourself.
Where the old man is.
And who you really are.
Who the hell are you?
Run, Gil-dong.
-You must live. -Mom.
Live and take revenge.
Put this plaster on the wound!
Apply this first.
What pill is he taking?
Mister.
He recognized me right away.
He knew me.
Did you ask the bad guy
where my grandpa is?
And even the reason why I'm here.
How did that bastard know everything?
Search all the inns. The kids are with him.
-Bring them here. -Yes, sir.
Old man, Hong Gil-dong was here.
Why did he have to come now of all days?
And same to you. Why now?
Why are you two trying to ruin my plan?
Hey, my Dong-i and Mal-sun--
Kids?
The kids are not important right now.
Aren't you here because of your foolish acts?
Why did you keep it until now?
How dare you.
Humans make mistakes when they are too carefree.
Like you did.
Once this is done, a new world will come.
I'll make that happen.
Where's the book?
If you let me go with my kids,
I'll give it to you--
APPROVAL DOCUMENTS WORK LOGS
Kang Seong-il's documents.
"A complete police staff replacement from October 21, 9:00 a.m."
If it's the 21st, then it began yesterday.
"Received nine Browning 25s, three Tokarevs,
and twenty-four PPS 43s.
That was 7:00 p.m., October 22nd.
The chief of the police will be on vacation starting October 22nd.
All police support will be stopped at 6:00 a.m. on October 23rd.
The telephone exchange offices will stop operating in two-hour intervals,
starting from 3:00 p.m. on October 23rd.
At 1:00 p.m. on October 24th, the route to Myeongwol-ri will be closed.
At 9:00 p.m. on October 24th,
complete the mission at the village lot.
Must leave weapons at the site."
What does this all mean?
If it's on the 24th, that'll be in three days.
So this is it.
These idiots are interesting.
Kim Byeong-deok and Kang Seong-il.
What's going on between the two and I?
Anyway, I need to find Kim first.
PLASTER
Welcome.
A man in a brown jacket with two little girls.
He has a scar in his face. Did he stay here?
Is there a bigger table? The table is so small that I can't work.
I'll get you a bigger one.
I bought some snacks for the kids.
Some policemen will come later today.
The one with shiny hair and with glasses. He's the kidnapper.
A policeman is a kidnapper?
He's obviously a corrupt policeman.
He will be asking you if I was here.
He must've been here yesterday.
Tell him that I was here
and that I'll be back tonight.
Yes, he was here last night.
He said that he will come back.
I think he's going to come back this evening.
I'm out of money. Send me some.
That's going to be difficult.
Nobody can go there.
Everyone's out doing stakeouts and research.
I need to go to the site too.
And I can't just send you anyone. It's dangerous.
Can you make it short? I only have 10 won left.
You should've told me that earlier.
Do you know what I went through yesterday?
I'm really busy.
The owner of the car number 7102 is Kang Seong-il--
I know.
And now you want me to pay double to buy them again?
It'll be difficult to even contact them. We don't have time to take all them out.
Are we sweatshop workers?
And what is the movie for anyway?
-You said you'll be back in a day. Why-- -Whatever.
Just send the money over if there's someone available.
No one's helping me out here.
You can still eat it if you wash it.
Now, how can we find Grandpa?
With this face, how...
Mister, I thought about it.
Those bad guys probably locked up Grandpa in an abandonded building.
In Yongdam-ri, there are a lot of abandoned buildings.
The owners rarely visit.
-We could go there. -No need to look.
-I know where he is. -You know it?
You know it? Seriously?
It's not in Yongdam-ri.
The building without an owner.
How does he know? That's impressive.
Very impressive.
But we need to go somewhere first.
Dong-i. Mal-sun.
Can you help me with something?
-Yes, we'll do it! -Yes, we'll do it!
How can we help you?
You just need to say a few words. I'll tell you what to say.
Don't say anything unnecessary.
Yeah, same to you.
That day, Kang Seong-il departed at 6:17 a.m.
He arrived at the repair shop at 7:05 a.m. without Kim. It took him 50 minutes.
He drove 70 km per hour for a 20-minute ride.
If it's within 9 km from Dong-i's house and 3 km from the shop,
Kim Byeong-deok is here.
Are there any vacant houses around this area?
Oh, it's near the repair shop.
Yes, there's a vacant buidling in this area.
But may I ask who you are?
You just told me, but I still don't understand.
-And what happened to your face? -Let me introduce him.
He's manager Jeong Myeong-su from the Department of Land Construction.
Right now, we are doing a survey
about land population.
We're doing a one-on-one field trip
with employees of the district government office.
I'm actually in the first grade.
And I'm just tagging along with my sister.
Now you know who he is, right?
Looks like you now understand.
Here you go. Drink up.
Thank you.
-How old are you? -Eight years old.
Eight years old?
-What grade are you in? -Fifth grade.
-Do you get good grades? -Not me, but she does.
That's okay. As long as there's something you want to do.
-My grades were terrible. -Really?
EXAMPLE, HONG GIL-DONG, KANG TAE-GONG
That building has no owner. Here's the map.
We don't even know who built it or when it was built.
I only went there once.
I wasn't sure if it was built for people to live there. It was strange.
We don't even know who owns the land in that area.
Lots of problems. It's weird.
-Thank you. -Of course.
What is she writing?
Mister.
What's your real job?
What is your name?
Mal-sun, if you are going to talk nonsense again--
I said, what is your name?
Mister.
Park Du-chil.
He just made it up.
You think so too, right?
Who would name a person Park Du-chil? Don't lie.
Wait. Is this the right route?
Why are you changing the subject? Who are you?
I said I'm Park Du-cheol!
-You said Park Du-chil earlier. You lied. -Seriously, you two.
Is this what your grandpa taught you? Being rude to adults like this?
Mal-sun, he wouldn't lie to us.
Is your name really Park Du-cheol?
It really is.
I'm sorry for suspecting you.
By the way,
is Grandpa going to be at the place?
Grandpa!
-Grandpa! -Grandpa!
Kim Byeong-deok is here.
This time, I'll catch him no matter what.
-Grandpa. -Wait.
There's nothing here.
This can't be.
Dong-i.
Mal-sun.
Is there anyone there?
It's weird.
Why is nothing working out?
Mister.
Is Grandpa eating well?
Is he sleeping in a warm place?
He's eating well and getting good sleep.
So stop asking me that.
What? You don't believe me?
No, I trust you.
Dong-i and Mister, I miss my grandpa so much.
Be quiet, Mal-sun.
Just eat your Jajangmyeon.
It's good, right? Eat up.
You're eating so well. Is it yummy?
Just eat this.
Don't you have other relatives except your grandpa?
-An aunt or something like that. -Nobody.
Only me, Dong-i, and Grandpa.
But Dong-i is so smart that she has a lot of friends.
You have no friends, right?
-Why are you asking? -You don't look like you do.
Mal-sun.
Dong-i said that you're a very kind person.
Do you mind if we become your friends?
-No. -Then starting now, we're friends!
Hey!
Why are you touching me like that?
-What is it? -Mal-sun, stop.
-Stop it. You're gross. -Mal-sun.
-Sit down. -Please stop.
What?
Is this on the house?
Mister, you can have it first.
Let's eat together. Friends are supposed to share.
-Mal-sun, come here. -Is there something on my face?
Why is your face so messy?
It's impossible for him to have friends.
He's not likable.
Because in his heart, there's a black bruise.
We found them all. Should we catch them?
Of course. Why do you even ask? Bring them in.
Okay and this is about Gwangeunhoe.
Years ago,
he witnessed his mother's death with his own eyes.
Since then, he became a bit abnormal.
I don't know if it's related to that, but something's wrong with his brain.
It cannot process fear.
In short, he's fearless.
Don't talk to him. Just shoot him.
He never gets much sleep because of nightmares.
He constantly takes pills.
What's this? There's nobody here.
Hold on.
Let me think.
Thinking will be useless.
What's so funny?
Didn't Kang Seong-il come?
Receive guns at 7:00 p.m. on the 22nd.
How busy is he? I'm a bit upset.
Let's go.
I think we lost him.
He was probably waiting for us.
Never mind.
He'll come here for sure.
Long time no see.
Nine Browning 25s, three Tokarevs, and twenty-four PPS 43s.
You can check them.
Those scumbags wouldn't talk till the end.
They would even give up their lives for it.
What made them so devoted?
I'll compensate you later for your time.
What's going on, really?
She's the owner of this bookstore.
He's a prosecutor. Please treat him well.
You know the attic uptairs...
We will always be on the people's side.
Our nation is at the doorstep of a new world.
When the enemy becomes brave enough to provoke,
whenever and in whatever situation,
I will defend and protect our nation at all costs.
If you believe in me,
we, the strong people, will do our best to protect our nation and our people!
I'm going to sleep.
If you're already awake, just get up.
Why didn't you buy more plasters?
How much money do we have left?
We still have a lot.
Is that your savings?
I saved it to buy Grandpa's glassess.
But it's okay. I can save it again.
By the way, I gave this inn's phone number to the man at the repair shop.
Jeez. Can you tie up her hair or something?
How am I going to bring her around when she looks so grungy?
Oh, her hair.
Grandpa has all her hairbands.
He always does her hair for her.
Mister, I'm not going to cry.
I'm the bigger one, so I'm not supposed to cry.
Grandpa said so.
For Mal-sun and myself,
Grandpa is the most important person in the world.
His knees are aching and his eyes are bad.
Every time he goes to pick up bottles, people harass him.
But he said he feels happy because he could at least
put food on the table.
Can we go back home one more time?
He told us to wait at home, and that he'll be back.
-Maybe-- -Don't be rediculous.
There's...
Why didn't I think about that?
Dong-i, they couldn't find it,
because it wasn't there.
The secret book Kim Byeong-deok has been keeping.
"Gwangeunhoe."
Founded a long time ago as a religious organization,
it now has a strong influence on politics and the military.
A fanatic group that has power.
Nobody knows how much money has gone to Gwangeunhoe.
People who investigated it have gone missing or died mysteriously.
Gwangeunhwe is trying to gain more power from the upcoming election.
Because they need to shut down scandals and bring in more money.
Everyone's sold on this fear of war propaganda that's promoted by them.
If there's an event that turns that fear into reality,
then surely Gwangeunhoe will have a strong grip on this nation.
And the person who is trying to fabricate that event is
Kang Seong-il.
But there is no evidence to prove that Gwangeunhoe exists.
That looks familar.
If I could only find documents written by them--
I asked you to send some money.
You...
Stop talking nonsense.
Tomorrow is the 24th.
All of us here are working on this case.
Okay, Chief Hong.
I have to ask you something.
Why are you taking Kim Byeong-deok's kids around?
Have you gone mad? Please don't--
Dong-i. Mal-sun.
And the people of Myeongwol-ri.
The innocent people who are victims of a big lie.
They prepared guns that spies would use.
The higher-ups will go on vacation. All communication will be cut off.
At 9:00 p.m. on October 24th.
All residents of Myeongwol-ri will be killed.
Kang Seong-il and Gwangeunhoe, who are trying to bring disaster.
And Kim Byeong-deok who killed my mother.
Every one of them,
including me, have the same mark.
Kim Byeong-deok knows everything.
I need to find him first.
What do we do now?
Why are you asking me that?
You promised to find my grandpa!
Are you getting mad at me?
We thought of a good idea.
How about we draw Grandpa's face?
-And put it up. -Put it up everywhere.
How did you come up with that?
I wish I could be carefree just like you.
Think about it.
Dong-i, you said you get good grades.
It's not like he's lost on the streets.
He's locked in somewhere.
He's captured in a completely remote…
What? Wait a minute.
Dong-i, hand me your notes.
Sure.
Jeez, I'm an idiot.
-This is Samhwa bookshop. -Is the inn owner there?
Oh, hi. He's here.
But just now, we got a call from Taegwang Repair.
It seemed urgent.
-The repair shop? -He said someone came.
Forget that. Let me talk to the inn owner first.
He wants to talk to you.
-Yes, hello? -What is it that you saw?
-What? -The place where you took furniture from.
You saw their grandpa there, didn't you?
So it was him, wasn't it?
It was their grandpa!
I wasn't able to see inside clearly.
-But it looked like a person. -Is anyone here?
I was going to tell you about it,
but you were so busy.
I went there yesterday too.
I thought it was weird.
Yes, I'm sure. I saw the grandpa there. I saw him twice.
-Where's that place? -Let me tell you.
You know, when you drive towards downtown--
Hello?
What is this? Hello?
"The telephone exchange offices will stop operating
starting at 3:00 p.m. in two-hour intervals."
The repair shop.
Why is he looking for me?
A place with the shortest distance from the old man.
Mister, are you all right?
Let's stop by at the repair shop first.
We need to fix our car.
He escaped.
Why is it so difficult to reach you?
Couldn't even find you at the police station.
Are you guys really working or not?
Why were you looking for me?
The old man's left eye is blind, right?
He was here. The kids' grandpa.
He came here?
He was looking for the kids and wanted to go home.
Don't know where he came from, but he was in bad shape.
So I told him to rest here for now.
Don't tell the kids about this.
-Hello. -Hello.
So you know...
I mean...
Kang Seong-il.
Where's my gun?
We will all die if we run into him now.
Just talk to him casually, and try to act normal.
Oh, hi.
Is it done?
It's outside. You can take it and leave.
Leave?
Just leave?
Oh, it's 125,000 won.
I'll dock 5,000 won off for you. It'll be 120,000 won.
Mal-sun, you know where the car trunk is, right?
There's a bag with a gun inside.
Take the gun and hurry back here.
Jeez, my legs.
Mal-sun, to the right.
Why did you close the door?
It seems like someone's inside.
What? Who?
What are you--
What?
Didn't I tell you to do your homework first?
There's no homework today.
She's not doing well in school.
Fine, I'll let you two meet.
I did well, didn't I?
Why did everyone come here? I was scared.
This is my workplace. Jeez.
Thank you.
For Mal-sun and myself, Grandpa is the most important person in the world.
Run, Gil-dong.
You must live. Live and take revenge.
Let me ask you one more favor.
I'll pay you back later.
Please take the kids to the bookstore.
All right.
I'm not doing this for money.
It's because these kids are so adorable. Do you know how busy I am?
Dong-i. Mal-sun.
You said you trust me, right?
-Yes. -We trust you.
Don't ask anything and follow him.
I'll join soon.
Who are you?
Is your name Kim Byeong-deok?
You had the book about Gwangeunhoe, right?
The secret book that can expose all of Gwangeunhoe's evil deeds.
At 9:00 p.m. tomorrow, the 24th.
They will gather all the people of Myeongwol-ri and kill them.
You knew about this and tried to run away with the book.
But you got caught and ended up like this.
Don't worry.
I'm here to help you.
Mister,
by any chance, was my grandpa at your place?
Hold on.
Isn't that the man from earlier?
We have only one day left.
We really don't have much time.
Tell me.
But the thing is, my kids are--
I'll let you meet them.
But if you want me to help you,
you have to tell me right here, right now.
If you get out of here without a plan, you will get caught again.
About that incident,
what you saw, heard, everything you know.
Tell me everything without one lie.
It all started there.
Those people
with false beliefs were living there together.
The leader of Gwangeunhoe.
For him, the people would do anything.
Once you're in, you couldn't dare to leave.
Those bastards even whipped a six-year-old kid
and broke his legs.
They seized people's hard-earned money.
All those with power took their bribes and overlooked their wrongdoings.
I used to be a clerk for my town.
I wrote in the book.
I wrote all the evil deeds they did with my own hand.
Trust me.
Those bastards are trying to kill innocent people again.
They still exist.
In this world, there's nothing impossible for them.
Wait.
So the one you killed...
Have you killed
anyone?
I escaped once.
Hong Sang-jik,
the leader of Gwangeunhoe,
liked to rape women.
He didn't care whether it was an adult or a child.
I was afraid that my daughter would be one of his victims.
So I needed to run away.
A lady who was with me at that time
was also running away to protect her son.
But we were captured.
As an example,
one of us needed to die.
That's why I picked up the gun.
So you regret killing that lady,
right?
You want to ask for forgiveness, correct?
No.
I would still do the same thing.
If I didn't do it, my daughter would have been killed.
For the sake of my daugther,
I'll kill ten or even twenty people.
-What? -You want me to apologize?
I don't regret it one bit.
I didn't do anything wrong. Those monsters did!
Say it again.
Say that you regret it.
Who are you?
Was that you?
-The son? -It's okay if you lie.
Say that you regret it.
Dong-i.
Mal-sun.
Mal-sun.
Where's the inn owner?
What are you doing here?
The old man is here, isn't he?
Mister.
Grandpa!
Grandpa!
Oh no, Mal-sun.
Are you okay?
-Mister. -We're in here!
-Dong-i? Mal-sun? -Mister!
Dong-i! Mal-sun!
Mister!
Hold on. I'll get inside.
What should I do?
-Hello? -Oh, it's you.
Thank God you picked up the phone.
-I found the kids' grandpa. -Where are you?
What happened that the kids are also captured here?
-The kids? -Dong-i and Mal-sun are here too.
You have to hurry up and come here.
I don't know the address.
You know the main road in front of my house.
Take a right there and you will see a cottage on the way.
And
if you go towards that direction...
Hey.
How do you feel after meeting him?
Did the old man apologize to you?
Did you give it a proper thought?
Where the old man is
and who you really are.
Where could this be?
I'll be waiting for you.
Hello?
Honey. Hello?
What's going on? What did he say?
You must live. Live and take revenge.
Mom.
You're finally here, Hong Gil-dong.
-Where's the book? -The book?
What book?
Stop lying to me.
Do you remember?
I was bitten by a dog
and you kicked it away for me when we were young.
Don't worry.
I don't plan on hurting you.
Okay. I don't want to fight either.
Is that true?
-Can I trust you? -Just trust me.
If I let you go now, can you bring it here?
I should've brought it here already.
I will, right away.
But first,
can you give the old man and the kids to me?
Of course.
Do whatever you want.
But you can only take Kim out of here as a corpse.
Then I will trust you and let you guys go.
Didn't you look for Kim because you wanted to kill him?
Like your mother was killed. Just like what you witnessed.
What are you getting at?
Kim Byeong-deok and the kids are all here.
Do it here. There's one bullet in there.
Why?
Is this situation familiar to you?
Kill the old man and join us.
The world will change.
I'm the only person who can understand you.
We'll be on your side.
Dong-i, close your eyes.
No!
I'll give it to you.
But the book is not with me. You searched me, didn't you?
Let me make one call.
They'll bring it here.
Why are you being like this?
-I told you not to be like that. -Dong-i.
Didn't you sense anything strange all this time?
Why was I with you guys?
Why was I looking for your grandpa?
Why would an emloyee at the Registration Department do that?
Does that make any sense?
Why are you so stupid and follow me around?
I'll tell you
the truth.
Shut up, old man.
I came here to kill your grandpa.
To kill him in front of you and your sister.
A long time ago, your grandpa did the same to me.
And you two are no different.
I was so disgusted to see you and your sister's dirty faces.
Do you know how hard it was to suppress my anger every time?
Friends?
Friends, my ass.
You disgusting
blood of my enemy.
Kim Byeong-deok will die by my hands.
However,
not this way.
He can't die like this.
Let me make a call.
They'll bring it here.
What I said doesn't matter.
People don't listen to my words carefully anyways.
I need to trust myself first.
Make a call, then someone will bring the book here...
On second thought, the phone can't connect now!
Grandpa!
Go first.
I'll get Dong-i and Mal-sun out of here.
Go, and don't let me
ever see you again.
Dong-i. Forget what I just said.
They were all lies.
Don't you know me?
My words are all lies.
Let's get out of here together.
Your grandpa is outside.
Trust me one last time.
Dong-i.
Mal-sun.
-Dong-i. -Damn it.
Wait for me here.
-Dong-i. -I told him to get out. What's he doing?
Mal-sun.
Grandpa!
Dong-i.
No!
You disappointed me.
Grandpa.
Where's Mal-sun?
Grandpa.
Mal-sun?
Mal-sun?
Mal-sun?
Mal-sun!
Mal-sun!
Grandpa.
Grandpa, wake up.
Kang Seong-il.
Mal-sun!
Hi. This is Kim Mal-sun.
I'm sorry.
You're not sleeping well and you're hurt.
You want to help us find Grandpa.
But I'm not being of much help.
I wish you were our uncle.
But being friends is great too.
Yours, Kim Mal-sun.
Hey, what is Mal-sun talking about?
Dong-i.
Grandpa.
Have you eaten?
I have.
Where's Mal-sun?
She's tired so she's sleeping.
Dong-i.
From now on,
you need to pack up
her school supplies for her.
My sweeties.
I'm sorry that I couldn't buy you delicious meals.
Dong-i. Mal-sun.
I'm sorry
for making you suffer because of me.
I'm sorry
for everything.
Did he pass away?
I should've told him
that we had sweet and sour pork
and that everything's fine.
But he died.
Grandpa.
Grandpa.
Grandpa.
Today's the 24th. Tonight's the night.
Where should I go?
Come to Jeongwon-ri dock tonight at 8:30 p.m.
Don't be late.
The current time is 8 p.m.
All residents of Myeongwol-ri must gather
at the village lot.
I repeat.
All residents of Myeongwol-ri must gather
at the village lot.
Attendance is mandatory.
Jeez.
My gosh.
I'll give you the book after you send them out.
Why did you come back?
You should've escaped when you had the chance.
What are you doing?
One minute left.
"One minute"?
Wasn't it at 9:00 p.m.?
What the hell are you doing?
We could talk this over.
Hold on.
Calm down.
Listen to me one last time.
Mal-sun.
It's over.
He said it's over.
All the people of Myeongwol-ri, and the little kid, are dead.
Mal-sun.
Gil-dong.
In this world, there are people who are important and those who are not.
It's okay to get rid of the unimportant ones.
Like those we just killed.
Help me. I'm sorry.
I really hoped you'll join us.
Father has been worried about you.
He said you would grow up to become dangerous.
-What? -What is this?
What's happening?
What is it?
Is something wrong?
The governor, the chief, and the security manager.
Long time no see, right?
So, what really happened here?
And now you want me to pay double to buy them again?
It'll be difficult to even contact them.
Do it correctly or you will die.
We don't have time to take all them out.
Are we sweatshop workers?
Gunpowder? There shouldn't be any left.
Because we took them all out.
You guys went nuts with the guns the day you got them, right?
You guys used up all the real bullets that night.
Where were your minds at?
The men you teamed up with were laying low until they got caught.
We found them all. Should we catch them?
Of course. Why do you even ask? Bring them in.
Then what were the gun shots that you heard at 8:30 p.m.?
You finally understand what happened, don't you?
Kang Seong-il.
Ever since the day after we met, you were fighting a losing battle.
Although things weren't going as planned with Kim Byeong-deok.
The real residents of Myeongwol-ri left their homes two hours ago.
They're watching a movie right now.
Just like what you did at your village.
A movie with lots of gunfire to cover up all the noises.
You're right. There are people who should not exist.
People like you who solely rely on your power and do whatever you want.
My job is to destroy people like you.
Even though I'm not a good guy myself.
It's done.
Is anyone there?
Someone answer me!
Yes, what's up?
Take your guns out if you want to live a little longer.
Starting now, you'll see what real hell is like.
Now, let's wrap this up, shall we?
How dare you
go against Hong Gil-dong.
I'm giving you guys one more chance. Go and tell them the truth.
-Okay. -Okay.
If you make trouble or lie again,
we will find you.
Next time, it won't be settled with guns.
A real clan of trash.
Kang Seong-il.
The second son of Chief Hong, the leader of Gwangeunhoe.
You used to be a soft and good-hearted brother.
You changed your name
and turned into a monster.
Don't assume that you have won.
This is not the end of us.
Father
will find you now.
He won't be able to catch me.
Because I'm someone who doesn't exist in this world.
Seong-il.
I don't even have an ID.
Mal-sun.
Mal-sun, wake up now.
Mister.
Let's go to your sister.
OCTOBER 25TH
The next day, life went on as usual.
At their work place
with the same look and attitude.
The families and friends who've been struck with tragedy
were contacted and told a convincing, made-up story.
They believed our story as they grieved deeply.
Nobody knows what really happened in this village.
"Controversy stirs up around Gwangeunhoe secret book.
The secret organization unveiled.
Government officials deny allegations of involvement."
The secret book put a lot of people in a tough spot.
And the death of Kim put Dong-i in a tough spot as well.
Dong-i. Where's Grandpa?
Grandpa went somewhere. He went to earn money.
If you eat well
and listen to your teacher,
he said he'll come back soon.
-Let's go. -Okay.
Grandpa.
Dong-i.
Are you not going to talk to me anymore?
My grandpa
didn't sleep well just like you
because he always dreamt of his wrongdoings in the past.
Mal-sun.
Yes?
Have I told you about my mom?
No.
She also
left me to earn money.
I didn't like seaweed
so I wouldn't eat
when she made seaweed soup.
My mom would take out all the seaweed
so that I could eat the soup with rice.
And...
my mom
would also
smell like paper.
Did your mom ever come back?
Yes.
-Seriously? -Of course.
You're not lying again, are you?
It's true.
Stop talking nonsense, will you?
Are we almost there? Where are we?
Is it true that we'll never meet again after this?
It seems so.
What if I miss you?
If that happens, just remember me.
We'll never forget you.
We won't forget you no matter what.
Mister!
What?
I saved these for you.
Here.
-Here. -I'm okay.
Dong-i, friends are supposed to share.
Didn't you know that?
Thank you, Mister.
I don't have nightmares anymore.
Because now I know
who I really am and who my enemies are.
The monsters that birthed me...
-Yeah, no, it's totally fine. -I just need to pass my class.
[sighs] Okay, so, uh, chemistry?
[boy] Yeah. The test is tomorrow.
-It's gonna be 30. -You're killing me with these prices.
Well, you know, last minute costs double. I don't know.
Do you wanna pass or not? I'm the one that can give you an A.
-[woman] No! -[woman 2] Oh, my gosh!
Those are bad for the baby.
Jet! Come on. No, we're done.
-But I wasn't done with that. -I don't care.
Please get dressed. We have to go.
[woman 1] I did not hit on your boyfriend.
-You need to back up! -[TV clicks off]
-I was watching that. -Yeah, I'm still finishing my homework.
I get the TV for two hours. That's the rule.
-Where are we going? -Christ, Laney! Where are his pants?
You promised Mom you'd pick her up this morning.
You know what? Now I'm tutoring Maverick Bowman in chemistry.
And I have an English paper,
and I have to finish my scholarship application by Friday.
I can't keep carting her around just because she wrecked her car!
It's out of the shop in a few days.
Please. Force Jet into some pants and make yourself useful.
-All right, bitch. -[gasps]
-[train horn blaring] -What did you say?
I just mean I think that tone-wise, you can be kind of a bitch.
My toys! My toys!
-Stop! Jet, no! Get back here! -[Jet] My toys!
No! No! No!
-[woman whimpering] Okay! -[girl] Oh, my God.
-Is that Mom? -You don't want any of it.
-[man] No, back up. -Oh, my God.
-Put the tasers down. I got this. -Go home, Carlos, go home!
Okay. It's okay.
-I'm gonna hit you with this. -Whoa! Hey. Back up, back up.
Let's put the TV down, all right? Everything's gonna be fine.
[sobbing] Nothing is ever gonna be fine again.
-Get away from me! -Back up, back up.
-Back up, back up, back up. -[panting]
-We'll fix it, all right? Look, it's me. -No! We can't fix it!
This is it. This is it. This is happening.
This... This is who I am! Oh, my God!
- [Carlos] Don't do it! No! - [crowd gasping]
-Goddamn it! -Oh, no you don't!
-Oh, no, you don't! -[Carlos] Watch her head.
-Oh, man. -Stop it!
-Get off my mom! -Stop!
-[Deidra] Mom! -Stop it!
Freedom! Freedom!
[Deidra] So I asked the public defender, "Why is my mom's bail so high?"
And he said that Good Buy is calling it an act of domestic terrorism.
But they don't think that really. I mean, I think they just get
a bigger insurance payment if they call it terrorism.
The public defender said that you're not talking to him.
But he's patient. And he has, like, a lot of other cases to keep him busy.
Would you shut up? We need to get her serious.
-We need to get her right, look at her. -You know what's great
-We need to get her right, look at her. -You know what's great about being in here? I mean, great.
I get to choose between kitchen or laundry.
One or the other. Yeah.
I mean... [laughs] I gotta tell you guys, chopping carrots just...
-It's therapeutic. It's, um... zen. -That's... [clears throat]
-It's therapeutic. It's, um... zen. -That's... [clears throat] -That's great. -Yes! Oh, get this.
Did you guys know there's a law in this state
that says they have to serve salad with every single meal in jail?
Every meal has a salad. Yeah, salad law!
-Do you have a playground? -I do.
And you know what? Mommy's doing yoga. I'm surprisingly flexible.
-I've always wanted to try-- -You know what? Enough, enough.
I really hope that you are coming up with a good excuse
as to why you went all Rambo on a Good Buy store.
Baby, I gotta tell you something.
That fact that you are taking such good care of this family
while I am away, it makes me feel so...
relaxed.
-You know what? -[guard] Hey!
What's going on over here?
Let's go. Jet, get off of Mom's lap. She's incarcerated.
-Ice cream. -You gotta let go of Mommy.
-[guard] Hey! -Okay, okay.
♪ You would take me as your own ♪
♪ Standing next to me... ♪
-[boy 1] Right here. -[boy 2] Yeah, her mom robbed Good Buy.
[boy 1] Yeah, totally flipped out.
Hey, how's your mom doing? [chuckling]
[girl 1] That's that girl with the crazy mom.
[girl 2] She's so pathetic.
-[girl] Say cheese. -[cameras clicking]
[man] Deidra?
Deidra? Do you care to join us?
You've only just missed Taylor here making the case
for genetic determinism by citing that he comes
from three generations of people who can smell fear.
I'm hoping for a more cogent and scientific argument from you. Please.
Free will versus determinism.
Free will, is that not the basic requirement for human consciousness?
I mean, the fact that humanity continues to make scientific
and artistic progress proves that we are not simply repeating
choices imposed by genetics or environment.
-Well said. -[chime sounds]
[woman, over PA] Deidra Tanner, please report
-to Ms. Spencer's office. -Go ahead.
-Deidra Tanner, Ms. Spencer's office. -So much for free will, right?
Deidra Tanner, my favorite student.
Let me read you something.
"I wanna go to any college that's at least a two-day drive
from this goddamn hillbilly town."
You wrote that, on your college intent form.
And you are the one and only senior in your entire class
who actually has the grades to do that.
So why did you miss ten days in the last three weeks?
I wasn't keeping count.
And what about your scholarship deadline?
I had the recommendation letter ready to go. I'm serious.
Deidra, what do you wanna be?
-What-- what do I wanna be? -Yeah.
You do realize that for thousands of years of human history,
the question, "What do you want to be" didn't exist?
No Mesopotamian farmer asked his son, "What do you wanna be?"
-I mean, you just be'd what you were. -Well, you're "being" stupid.
Thinking like that is quicksand and you know it.
Deidra Tanner does not feel stuck. Deidra Tanner feels fierce.
I know you're applying to transfer schools.
[chuckles] Okay--I, uh-- is that--
Does everyone know that? Okay, yes, that is true.
That is true, if I get one student into a college
that does not have the word "community" in the title,
I could possibly get to teach at a inner city school
that's much... nicer than this one.
But that does not mean I don't care about the students here at this school.
You deserve to get out. We deserve to get out.
Do you know what I'm saying? I need you to get desperate!
Do you know, in prison, they serve a salad with every meal?
Why don't we have that?
Would you come to school for salad?
I'll bring you a salad. I'll get you any salad you want.
Do you want, like, a Caesar salad? A chicken salad? Taco salad?
She's like a taco salad kind of girl.
-[girl] Don't look at that. -[woman] Phones away!
Laney, eye contact.
Oh, I'm sorry. Could you repeat the question?
I'll answer while she thinks.
I would choose to meet Mary Tyler Moore.
Because she used her television roles to bring America smart, independent women.
-And she is why I wanna be an actress. -Wow, Claire, that was perfect.
I would meet Taylor Swift.
No way, that was my answer.
-No way. -No way.
-Laney? -[Laney] Uh...
George Washington?
-Shut up. -[woman] All right. Let's take five.
And when I come back, I will announce the finalists.
Laney, I really liked your George Washington answer.
You know what? You're much smarter than all these airheads.
Laney, what's wrong?
I went from being nothing in school
-to a nothing with a crazy mom. -Hey, that's not true.
Soon, people are gonna remember how wonderful you are. I promise.
Like, how you come to these meetings with me
-even though I know you hate it. [laughs] -Yeah. I hate it.
-[message chimes] -Oh, wait. Sorry, hold on.
Goddamn it, Cheryl!
[sighs] Sometimes I wish my mom would go to jail.
[woman] Okay, ladies.
The time has come. We have four finalists.
Number one-- can I have a drum roll, please? Just kidding, no drum roll.
Katie Lynn!
Number two... Darlene.
Our third contestant is...
Claire.
And the final contestant is...
Laney Tanner.
Which is yay, right?
And for the rest of you who did not make it,
I still expect you to sell ten tickets to the pageant.
And then maybe, you'll have better luck next year.
For those of you who are seniors...
I'm sorry. It's over for you.
I didn't see you leave. [chuckles]
Congrats on making finalist. Of course, I knew you would.
But... I mean, we all know I'm the surprise.
This is cool, right?
Laney, you were supposed to be there and support me through all of this.
-I just sat there. -And now what,
we're gonna compete against each other? God!
You're crazy.
You're about as crazy as your weird mom,
if you think this is ever gonna be cool, okay?
Look, as long as there's food
and you or another adult in the house, we're gonna get along.
-Great. -But...
if there is no food and no adult, your siblings are gone.
Chief Manuelito, Treaty of 1868.
Thank you.
It's true, true, false.
-Good. -Thanks.
It's "hk" not "kh."
It's nosotros somos.
Thank you.
You don't wanna sell weed. You broke up with me for selling.
No, I broke up with you because you have no ambition, but...
I need a chunk of money, fast.
-Yeah, well, I don't sell anymore. -Come on, you support yourself here?
-Hey, I do stuff. -Really?
I'm an entrepreneur.
Oh, that's fancy.
If you're hurting so bad, why don't you apply for food stamps
-like a normal person? -Well, food stamps
aren't gonna get me into college. And I already tried to apply.
Turns out my dad used to sell them outside of the Piggly Wiggly
when I was a kid. Now the Tanners can't get them. Whoa.
-What? -You got a dad?
Why are you begging me? Hit up the old man.
I'm-- I'm not gonna-- no.
Killer boots, Kid Blammo.
I should get me some boots like that.
They would look good on me.
Oop, oop. Watch them nuts. [chuckles]
-Sweet pea? -Hi.
-What are you-- -Dad.
Uh, hey, come inside.
-Do you want some-- -No.
Oh! And, uh, hold on. I got something for you.
Maybe a five in there. Maybe even be a couple.
So I mean, no child support since Jet was born,
and... you only saved $13.
Yeah, but it's cash.
It's not about the mo--
Look, I'm the best dad when it comes to moral support.
-What? -I am always there when you need me,
-gone when you don't. -Yeah, well, we can't eat moral support.
-Do you still have that truck? -Oh, yeah.
-Yeah? Could you sell it? -What? Sell my truck?
-Why? -Well... [sighs] No.
-It won't be enough money anyway. -How would I get to work?
-This was a dumb idea. I'm gonna go. -How would I get--
Wait, wait! No, sweet pea, don't go!
I don't ever get to see you.
Come here! What-- Do you wanna see your old man on TV?
-No, I don't. -Yeah, no, come look at this.
I was on TV. They made a video file that fits on my phone.
-No. -No, you gotta see this. Real quick.
So I was filling a slot in Salt Lake, and they came to do an interview.
Wasn't me, but it was of this...
We're here at the Pacific Western Rail train yard
where more than $3 million of merchandise has...
-There I am. [laughing] -disappeared over the last couple months.
Look who's part of the newscast.
Your old man. There he is.
Thank you for doing this. Mr. Truman, let's start with--
-Detective Truman. -Detective Truman. Excuse me.
-Let's talk about what... -Oh, there he goes. [laughs]
-Wait, so people still rob trains? -Oh, yeah.
They do it all the time. It's easy. But not that I've personally--
See, the companies, they pay for insurance,
then the insurance just reimburses the companies.
And then we as the consumers,
we pay, like, a 10% markup on everything anyway.
It covers the theft, so...
So no new information about what was stolen?
[Deidra] Well, rail police?
Like... police, police?
That's what they call themselves.
They're just there to cover the company's ass. It's corporate bullshit.
Yeah, and the whole yard got sacked in New Orleans.
So Abe's gonna transfer down there to fill a slot,
which opens up a slot for head mechanic. Guess who's gonna slide in there.
-Thanks. -I've gotta go.
What? Wait, why? I'm gonna be head mechanic, babe!
A pageant?
I only joined because Claire told me to come with her.
-I'm sorry, Claire? -She's-- she's my only friend after...
You have friends?
-Nothing good ever happens to me. -Hey, no. Laney bug.
-You won that Geography Bee, remember? -That was Deidra.
Yes, it was Deidra, wasn't it? Um...
Hey, did I ever tell you that I was Teen Miss Idaho?
Oh, yeah.
Right when I was your age.
I had a crown and a sash and a dress and the whole thing.
I felt so special. I even got to audition for Teen Life.
-Oh. What's that? -Teen Life, the TV show.
It was the reality show of the '90s.
Every teenager in the world wanted to be on it
and the producers, they loved me. They said that I was spunky.
What? You didn't do it?
No, no, couldn't do it.
I got pregnant with your sister.
Thought I could reach for something more, but...
-"More" is not for us. -No, baby, I don't think it is.
[sobs and sniffles] Okay, uh, we should go.
-Come on. We gotta go. -Huh?
-Laney bug? -Bye, Mama.
Shit, shit, shit.
Sorry, buddy, it's not much.
We're out of food, and the power's out.
-I'll add it to my list. -Where were you?
I, uh, went to see Chet.
I went to see Mom.
[sighs] Remember, um...
Remember when Chet used to let us ride the trains?
[chuckles] Yeah. Stupid.
I got finalist for the Teen Miss Idaho pageant.
I'm gonna rob the train.
-Well, why did I think you'd care? -I'm not joking.
I mean, forget school, glitter bunny. Do you know what's going on here?
Yeah. Mom's in jail, and you're talking about train robbing.
No, I'm about to give up going to college so that I can get a full-time job
to support you and Jet. And even then, I might not make enough.
What about savings? Mom said everything would work out.
Look how we live. Does it seem like things work out for Mom?
What if we lose the house?
What if CPS lady comes back and the power's still out?
You and Jet would go to foster care.
We would only need a little over 11,000.
I mean, that would cover the bills, Mom's bail.
She could go back to work, and our lives would go back to normal.
You said it. We used to ride the trains when we were kids.
No way. Wait, what?
-I tried it myself and it didn't-- -You what?
-Look, I didn't get caught. -Dee!
I didn't get caught. I just...
I need somebody to spot me. That's it.
I promise I won't let anything happen to you.
No, you can't find someone else?
Who else is gonna help me rob trains?
Dee...
Fine.
But it's not gonna work. So...
Yes, it is, glitter bunny.
[Deidra] So how does one rob a train?
Well, there are dozens of different cars.
Like grain cars, oil cars... box cars.
The goods we want travel in containers on flat cars.
But the container doors are locked with steel bolts.
We'll need something strong enough to cut through them.
The shippers might figure out a container's been opened.
But with 138,000 miles of track in the US,
they'll never know where the break-in happened.
If you get caught, don't snitch.
Over here we have the train schedule, so we know exactly when they're coming.
8,000 and 10,000. And then bingo.
Give me some skin.
[Deidra] We will only work at night when there are fewer workers
-and the neighbors are asleep. -[line ringing]
We board the train half a mile from our house.
We have 20 minutes before we hit the yard.
Ten minutes to open the container, five to pick boxes
and three to push the boxes off.
It's funny, right?
Get my backpack.
-Oh, my God. I hate you! -[yells, laughs]
[Deidra] The train stops for two minutes before it goes into the yard.
When we see Mr. Bear, that's our last chance to get off.
-Hey, wait. -What?
Are you sure about this?
Sure about-- Oh, you mean the robbery
that we've been planning all week? Yeah, I'm sure about it.
Okay, but wait. Planning it is one thing, but actually doing it?
Laney, we are going to rob a train, okay?
Do you wanna bail Mom out? Because this is how we're gonna do it.
[Laney] Hey, isn't that one of Jet's toys?
He knows he's not supposed to play over here.
-That's ironic. -You know what?
-Oh, God! -[train horn blaring]
-Oh, shoot! Go, go, go! -Okay, okay.
Come on! Come on, we're gonna miss it. Hurry up!
Go up fast.
Here, give me your hand. Give me your hand!
Okay.
-Laney, hold this. -Okay.
Okay.
Go, go, go.
-Oh, my God, I can't! I can't! -Ready?
-Okay. -Push.
I guess we'll start at the front?
Yeah.
I got it.
Okay.
-I hope that wasn't expensive. -I hope it was.
Oh, two minute marker.
-Oh, shit! Oh! -What? What?
[Deidra] It's a cop!
-[shushing] -Laney!
-Go, go, go! We gotta split up! -What?
Dee!
Dee.
[sighs] Are you okay?
Okay, come on.
-Okay, let's go. -Okay.
-[Deidra] Shut up. -[Laney] Wait.
-Okay. I got it, I got it. -Okay.
Oh, Lord have mercy.
-Okay. -All right.
-Hurry. One, two, three. -Okay.
-Oh, shit! Get down! -Oh, shit.
Remember when you pushed me off the train?
Remember when I made you carry freight boxes back to the house?
Towels, three microwaves and...
Jeans.
This is Deidra.
Straight A queen.  This is G Dog and Wally.
Check it out.
Where'd you get all this?
Do you want this stuff or not, Mr. Entrepreneur?
Socks? What the hell are we gonna do with socks?
-There's other stuff, too. -Laundry detergent!
What? That shit's expensive.
All right.
I am not letting you drop out. No slouching.
Why? I mean, you've seen me during Q&A.
People are staring at me. I get all hot. My brain turns to cat food.
Cat food?
Sweetie, you were never supposed to make finalist.
But a girl in Lakewood dropped out because she was pregnant,
and the judges said I could choose whoever I wanted, and so here you are.
Why me? There are tons of other not-pregnant girls.
I could see you needed it the most.
Believe it or not, I was once like you. Shy, constantly embarrassed.
And then I realized, I wasn't shy at all. I was just out of place.
I was a Princess Kate living in a Kardashian world.
-I'm... just a Tanner. -We'll see about that.
Unh-unh. Handle.
Four fingers down, pinkie up. Like a lady.
-Hey! [laughing] -You said you would call. What happened?
Look.
Yeah, well...
-So tonight? -Again?
Do you have something better to do?
-No. -No. Oh, my God.
♪ There's a time for every star to shine ♪
♪ People keeping score ♪ ♪ Better hurry up and get yours ♪
♪ Somebody else got your spot ♪  ♪ Before you even dropped ♪
-[Laney] Spiral notebooks? -[Deidra] Uh, no.
Sleeping bags?
-Uh... maybe. Yeah. -So, uh...
So there's this pageant dress rehearsal next week at school
and they're inviting parents, and I was wondering
if maybe you wanna come.
Hell no. That sounds terrible.
Yeah, it will be.
You know, why do you care about this pageant stuff?
I mean, we have bigger things to deal with.
Well, I tried to drop out because Claire's super pissed,
-but Ms. Fowler won't let me. -Claire? Who is that?
Claire, my best friend, you know.
-I have friends. -Man, get back at her by winning.
-Funny. -Why's that funny?
You say "winning" like it's not hard.
Is it, though? We're talking about a human dog show.
Well, Mom was Teen Miss Idaho. She was gonna be a reality TV star,
but then she had us, and her life went to crap.
Wait a minute. Whoa, wait. What?
[sighs] Her point being that I am nobody
because I am meant to be nobody, and there's no use in trying.
So she gets herself nowhere, and now she blames us?
You know what? You are not nobody.
You are a badass who robs trains.
You're my Sundance Kid.
-Yeah? -Yeah.
Bring it in. Mmm! Just like that.
-Now come over here and help me. -Okay.
[woman] And no screw-ups like last time.
I thought he was my suspect.
Night watchmen should wear brightly-colored uniforms.
Well, you're teaming with local PD.
Oh, well, that's very helpful. Thank you very much.
[Chet] Hey!
I know you.  We were on TV together.
What you up to, buddy?
I'm trying to think of a small word that means "ignoramus."
Well... all right then.
You told her not to even try.
Have you met your daughter? She can barely order pizza over the phone.
-Deidra, I didn't. -Yes, you did.
What if this is something that she needed?
-You said that we ruined your life. -What?
No. Deidra, that is not what I meant.
You know what? I am gonna take care of Laney now.
[Goldie] That's not what I meant.
[man] Right there.
The height, the build, the energy, these are obviously teenagers,
and they're probably mine.
Or maybe they could be very short adults.
-Ever think of that, Mr. Truman? -Detective Truman.
And I know the difference between teenagers and midgets.
Don't say that word. Nobody says that word anymore.
I understand the students in this school ascend
-to a particular level of miscreancy. -They're not my students.
I mean, I'm transferring to a better school
as soon as I get all the college applications.
Trust me, I'm as embarrassed to be in this godforsaken burg as you are.
I am Pacific Western Railroad's top investigator.
I never partner with local PD.
I never babysit rent-a-cops. New experience for both of us, I guess.
I typically take down organized criminal syndicates.
I do not want to be investigating teenagers.
Now, I know that you're gonna feel the need to protect your students,
but any information you have
that could make this investigation go faster would be appreciated by me,
my railroad and the United States government.
Excuse me, ladies, have you seen Deidra Tanner?
Okay. Has anyone seen Deidra Tanner?
Okay. Mr. Morrissey, hi. Have you seen Deidra Tanner?
Hmm... I don't think she's been in class all week.
I need the light!
-I need-- -[Laney] Where's Mr. Bear?
Thank you.
-Dee, there's cameras! -What? No! Laney!
Oh, God! Please!
I'm gonna kill you.
Those cameras weren't there yesterday.
So what? It's not like anybody watches them.
-Who's that? -I don't know. Just answer the door.
Answer the door.
-I don't want to. -Just get it.
-We'll be fine. -What are you gonna do with that?
If you don't answer the door, I swear to God.
-All right. -Just... be cool.
-Hey, there. -Hey, there.
-I'm looking for Deidra. -[whispers] I'm not here.
She's not here right now.
-She's not here? -Nope.
She's right here.
-Like right here? -Laney!
Deidra, get your things. We're going to school.
-Now's not a good time. -I cannot believe you did this.
I can't believe that one day random cells started to divide
and form complex organisms, but it happened.
Is it you and your sister? Is this a trend?
-Are there more people? Who is it? -Nobody.
-I'll guarantee that. -I'm gonna have to tell Principal Wagner.
-No, no. -We're on a zero tolerance policy.
-No, you don't have to tell. -I do have to tell.
There was a Pacific Western rail cop in my office two days ago
-looking for teenage train robbers. -I was just doing what you said.
-What did I say? -You told me to get desperate
so I can bail my mom out and come back to school.
-That is not what I meant. -Well, now college is back on the table.
I mean, rolling deadlines are still open,
and I'm actually saving money for my first semester.
-I can apply to any college you want. -Even the Ivies?
Why am I even considering this? No. You are a thief and an extortionist.
You know, if I go to jail, your valedictorian
-is gonna be Stacy Alberts. -Oh, God.
The girl who wants to major in domestic engineering.
She'll bring up cast iron cookware in her speech.
Deal. [groans] Now, I'm an accomplice.
-Okay. -Oh, sorry.
Tell me about this train cop.
And finally we can never invest too much in Pre-K education.
Way to go, Claire. Excellent answer. Laney, you're next.
Oh, wow, that's a really nice dress.
Did your mom make that in a prison sweatshop?
Laney, name your favorite school holiday and why.
My favorite school holiday is...
Columbus Day. Because we wouldn't be here without Columbus.
Unless you're Indian, Native American, then...
Martin Luther King Day. Duh.
Okay. Well, most of your answers blew me away.
Ladies, that signifies the end of rehearsal.
-[stammers] I already told my kid. -With the cop poking around,
-I can't promote someone with a record. -I'm not the one stealing this time.
Yeah, go.
Yeah. He dropped a traction motor on his toe?
That's what happens when you promote the wrong people.
I'm coming right down. Just a sec. Next time it comes around.
There may not be a next time!
Mr. Bear? What are you doing here?
Good afternoon. My name is Victor Truman,
and I have been deployed here by the Pacific Western Railroad Company...
to enlighten all of you
as to the lethal dangers of rail traffic.
-[laughs] -Dee, stop it. What the hell is this?
I don't know. Some guy came into school today and gave us a speech.
-Oh, my God, this is disgusting. -[sighs]
What do you think it means? Do you think they know?
No. No, of course not. I mean, they have that every year.
I had to sit through it last year.
The health teacher has a stack of those on his desk next to the bowl of condoms.
I've never heard of...
Well, you don't pay very much attention in school.
Maybe it's something to think about.
-What is? -Packing up shop, bringing Mom home.
I feel like we're not getting enough money out of this.
No, we're not.
Oh, shit!
It's CPS day. Laney, you were supposed to be home!
You were supposed to be home!
[Laney] Oh, my God!
Hey, don't be so dramatic, honey.
You know, every time Uncle Dennis comes in and does a little housework,
-they act like they've seen Bigfoot. -[chuckling]
-[woman] You are just a hoot. -No sasquatch here.
-More pancakes? -[woman] You know, I probably will.
You are gonna make an excellent husband someday.
Thank you.
Well, Gloria, kinda hate to see you go.
-Oh, well, thank you. -Yeah.
With all of these kids running around, it's nice to have an adult conversation.
-Ooh, I'm an adult. [laughing] -Just barely.
Barely legal.
-So are you gonna be here next week? -Well, I'm hoping so. Will you?
-It's a date. -Okay.
Well, you know, a court-ordered meeting.
Or a date. You got a little syrup right there.
-Got it. -Thanks.
-Okay. Bye now. -Bye.
Chet, what are you doing here?
Chet? Chet, what are you doing here?
-Chet, no! Don't! -Wait!
[Chet] Well, lookee what we have here.
I'll give you one point for organization.
That little thermometer chart, that's a nice touch.
But minus three points for your dumb shittery.
What are you thinking? Huh? These can't be here.
Any Joe Piss can wander down the street and look back here,
and you're looking at county lockup, three years minimum.
Chet, you can't be here legally.
Burn these. That's the best way to destroy the evidence,
but do not tell your mother.
What if that CPS lady figures out who you really are?
-I mean, what if she sees your record? -Manifest Destiny.
A man has a right to protect his family regardless of the law.
-That is not Manifest Destiny. -You know something?
Your Uncle Dennis did a little recognizance.
It turns out old Gloria, she has over 200 cases in this county alone.
So she ain't gonna be looking me up.
Honey, come give me a hand with this one.
No. No, don't do that. I can handle this myself.
Oh, can you? Okay.
How's that cop gonna run his investigation?
-A cop? -You don't know.
-Oh, my God. -You don't know.
But I do because I've been investigated many times.
-Not cool. -You girls know how you got caught?
-The dude from school? -Nope.
On the bottom of each shipping container, there's a sticker.
And on the sticker, there's a bar code.
And that bar code matches the shipping manifest.
So when you open the container, it rips the sticker, destroys the bar code
so it can't be scanned at the next checkpoint.
-An investigation? -Oh, yeah.
The cameras.
-[mutters] -Oh, and, uh... recognize him?
Mr. Bear?
I gave you Mr. Bear at your eighth birthday party,
right before your mom kicked me out when my dealer ate the cake.
-Could you just stay? Come. -Laney.
[Laney] No.
I ain't got nowhere to go.
A cop?
Spencer told me on Monday, but it's not a big deal.
Not a big deal?
-Our felon father is in the backyard. -I will try to get rid of Chet.
-No. No. -Okay?
-He knows. We have to stop. -No, look, this is Chet, okay?
He will probably get bored and go home tomorrow.
-[Wally] We told you not to bring anyone. -He promised he would be quiet.
We're still trying to move the backpacks.
-Backpacks? -What?
What? No. What is this, Walmart?
-Chet, shut up. -What's our cut?
-Forty percent. -Forty percent, no.
-That's highway robbery. -That's exactly what this is.
We need to make money too, all right? I'm saving up for the culinary institute.
I like your style, but listen to this.
What if I can guarantee you electronics, cosmetics...
I'm talking name brands.
-You can't do that. -I can do that.
-No. -Yep, I can.
-You give my girl 60% here. -Sixty?
Sixty percent and you'll be graduating from the French toast to the brioche.
-We can't do that. -We can do that.
-[Jerry] Can you? -No.
We can. Do we have a deal?
-Sixty percent. -Sixty percent.
-Name brands. -Name brands.
-Electronics. -Electronics.
-You got a deal. Whoo! -All right.
Hey!
-I did not need you to speak for me. -Why?
I'll just log some hours at the switching station.
That way, we know exactly what's coming in.
Everything that we have right now, I got myself.
-Without you or Mom. -Of course you did.
But that's because of me, too.
Look, honey. We're the same chunks of DNA.
We run around influencing each other's actions.
-Now I was a mess when you were little. -Yeah.
That helped you to learn for yourself.
Are you seriously trying to take credit for all of my hard work and success?
No. I'm just saying that...
you finally need my help for something that I'm good at.
-I was thinking... -Yeah?
-About the stickers. -Stickers, yeah.
If you swipe the shipping manifest,
I could print new stickers in the computer lab.
Yes! Yeah, see, that is that Tanner ingenuity.
-Let's go! -I don't have the keys.
Got 'em.
[Deidra] Look for the X.
Look for the-- oh, there it is!
Go! Go, go, go.
-[chuckling] Yeah. -Oh, my God.
None of the seals were broken.
[woman] Then why am I missing three TVs and a case of cell phones?
You said you would have this done in a week.
Yes, I know I did, but I cannot figure this out snooping around a school
with a pacifist cop and a counselor who clearly needs to be on medication.
-Please give me back my gun. -Are you serious?
After what happened in Arizona?
You are lucky I let you carry a flashlight.
Yes, I know. I got the memo.
Goldie...
You look ten years younger and 20 years finer.
If the table wasn't here, I'd put another baby in you.
What are you doing living with my kids?
Our kids. 'Cause I'm the best dad in the world.
I'm there when you need me, I'm gone when you don't.
-We don't. They don't. -Listen.
There's a big debt. It's still there.
And only you can fix that debt.
Only you can heal that debt, from the heart.
So...
-Why am I so attracted to you? -[mutters]
-And I wonder why-- -Can I just...
-Your nails look nice. -Thank you. They do 'em in here.
-Can I just... -They did a good job.
-Chet. -Yeah?
-I hate you so much. -I hate you too.
-I hate you so much. -I hate you more. I hate you so much, Chet.
-[man] Guard! Guard! -Hey! Hey!
Okay, that's it!
-Break it up! Break it up! -Get the spot, baby.
-Phyllis! Phyllis! -Yeah, I got it.
-Oh, my God. Chet. -You both get off!
-[alarm blaring] -Okay, okay.
-Okay, okay. -Okay, okay!
Come on, baby! Come on! Okay!
-No! She's coming with me! -Just one more, just one more.
-She's coming with me! -We're going in the hall.
[Truman] Overnight, this operation has gone from erratic
to the most sophisticated I've seen in my career.
So our investigation has to evolve. I'm gonna start interviewing students.
Anyone who lives within a five-mile perimeter of that train yard
gets interviewed by me.
We are so screwed.
We're gonna be so rich.
I'm confused.
The Federal Mint.
The Federal Mint has a car?
-Like, to ship money? -Yeah.
But it's rare, and guys like me never know which train it's in.
-This is a great opportunity. -That's the night of my pageant.
-Laney! Do you care about this at all? -Yeah.
I mean, train dude is bringing us in for questioning tomorrow.
-I know. -Are you ready for that?
Yeah, what are you gonna say when train dude starts questioning you?
-Um-- -What are you gonna do, Laney? Um...
No. Cops see "ums" as confessions. No ums.
Eye contact or jail? Answers or jail?
-Well? -I don't know.
Would you stop being a baby?
What is your problem, glitter bunny?
Chet's supposed to leave, right? No. He stays. And the Federal Mint car.
This is too much. This is like real crap!
Shut up! You rob trains, too, so you need to stop whining.
Stop it!
I knew there was money missing.
What the hell? What is this?
Keep your voice down.
-You-- you're taking money? -Yeah.
This is supposed to be going towards getting Mom home!
You know what? We don't have to stop at Mom's bail.
I can make enough money so that I can go to college,
-I can pay for my first semester. -That wasn't the plan.
-This is my plan. -Of course.
-Why can't you see the bigger picture? -Because I'm not you!
Yeah. You are, all right? You're a Tanner, too.
We're all part of the same shitty chunks of DNA!
Fine.
It says here that your home is in close proximity
to the Pacific Western railroad train yard, is that correct?
Yeah. But, uh, I don't like trains. So...
They're loud and dangerous.
One time this really gross hobo hit on me at the Tiger Mart.
I think he hopped trains.
You got a problem with a second year senior? I got perfect attendance.
Chelsea Rich has this new iPhone,
but everyone knows her dad was fired from the Hershey's factory.
So people said she blew Nicholas Burtleson for it.
But Nicholas doesn't have a job. So where did he get it?
-Wait a second. You're the valedictorian? -I will be, in May.
Why are we interviewing the valedictorian?
What's next, the frigging glee club?
Your list, man.
-So, what did he ask you? -Nothing, really.
-Nothing? -No. Nothing.
Laney!
-I'm sorry. I've gotta go. -Deidra. Deidra!
-Ms. Spencer! Look at my dress! -I see it.
-Who did this? -I don't know.
It's ruined.
STDs.
STDs.
Hey, there.
I like your toys.
-Deidra! -Jet!
It's just a photograph. We're all good.
Valedictorian.
-Hey, are you okay? -Yeah.
-Yeah? Did he ask you anything? -No.
-No? He didn't ask you about trains? -No.
Joining me now to talk about this is Detective Vick Truman.
He is with the Pacific Western Rail Police. Thank you for joining us.
-Mr. Truman, let's start with-- -Detective Truman.
Detective Truman. Excuse me. Let's talk about what was--
You got enough for your mom?
More than enough. Thank you.
You know sometimes, and I'm not saying this to dig at you,
but you act like you're too good for us.
-You're fricking shady gangsters. -Shady?
-Yeah. -What do you think we do?
G's auntie taught us how to sell your crap on eBay.
We use my grandma's attic for storage.
Dee, you showed up here all judgmental,
so I started spewing that entrepreneur crap.
I didn't think you'd actually bring boxes of junk.
So you wouldn't have done this if not for me?
Yeah.
So don't act like this is some hostage situation.
-I'm not acting like it's a hostage-- -Go to college. Have a life.
[Chet] Anyway, did I tell you guys about Carl?
Oh, man, so on the day I'm supposed to get promoted...
[Deidra] I'm so sorry I pulled you into this.
I'm sorry I let you.
I gotta go.
I'm sorry.
So that guy's definitely gonna kick that guy's butt.
Well, that's a big hunk of change. Where you headed, sweet pea?
To the bond company to bail Mom out. I want you gone when I get back.
I thought I was gonna help you hit that mint car.
No.
Wha-- When did you--
I'm gonna grab another cold beer. You want one?
No. I'm good.
So who's beating who? [chuckles]
-Uncle Dennis. -Hey, Gloria.
-There she is, the woman of my dreams. -[both laughing]
Don't sweet-talk me.
Why didn't you tell me you were their father? Chet Tanner.
-Yeah. That's my Christian name. -Oh, honey, you're no Christian.
Where's his real guardian?
Oh, Dee. Yeah. She's-- she's right over here.
Let me go get her. Hey, come on. Let's go find your sister.
I think she's making, uh-- She's making toaster strudels.
Damn it! [sighs] I thought he was the one.
I paid your bail.
They'll release you in the morning.
Just prepare for the trial because I went through so much to get you out.
[Goldie] Oh, baby, what did you do?
No. This family just ruins each other, all right?
-Stop. -No.
Stop!
Deidra Josephine Tanner, turn your ass around and set it down.
I never, never meant to say that you ruined my life.
Baby, I'm in here 'cause I ruined yours.
Honey, some people--
A lot of people, they said that I... I lost my one big shot.
But not me. Mnh-mnh.
I didn't regret having you, not for one minute, not for one second.
And that's why I saved every single dime
from my Teen Miss Idaho grand prize, $10,000.
And I put it in a savings account for you, for college.
And no matter what happened, every single week, I added to it.
♪ Like running water from my hands ♪ ♪ Raining on this picture land ♪
[Goldie] The bills from the crash piled up.
I was spread too thin, and I lost everything.
♪ Or will you leave in the dead of the night? ♪
♪ So your waves don't crash around me ♪
[Goldie] See, honey, not doing better for me.
That didn't matter.
But not doing better for you?
That's what hurt.
Mom.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Come here.
[Carlos] Hey, buddy.
What is that? Is that Deidra?
-What's going on? -Didn't I tell you?
-No. -I finally cracked my case.
Hello.
Funa, thank God. Listen, I need to know where the Tanner girls are.
I hate to tell you this, but they might be train robbers.
-I know. Thank God you know. -Okay. So where are they?
Okay, uh, they are... They're at the pageant.
Oh, shit. Oh, shit. Oh, shit.
Hey, you.
-Hi. [chuckles] -Are you ready?
Uh... yeah.
-I think so. -I am so proud of how far you've come.
I took this little shadow of a girl, and I turned you into a princess.
You are a princess who shines brighter than the sun.
You're a princess star. I want to hear you say it.
Say it? I am a princess star.
Hey, you got this.
-You can win this whole thing. -Okay.
What are you waiting for? Get out there.
Oh, I... Uh, okay. Thank--
Hey. Watch--
Ladies and gentlemen, she's gonna make a great governor one day.
Thank you so much.
And, ladies, thank you for being in this part of the show.
We'll be seeing you a little bit later. Thank you.
And we're introducing the next group of our contestants coming out on the stage.
These lovely ladies will be taking some tough questions.
And contestant number one.
Why did you join this pageant?
Hey, um...
Don't move until your sister comes to get you, okay?
-Where are you going? -Uh, just gotta go outside for some air.
Can I go with you?
No. I wish you could.
But, no. I gotta get "Dad" air outside on my own.
-You can take Kid Blammo. -What?
Look, can you tell your sisters that I said, "Hey"?
Excuse me.
I was Teen Miss Idaho. Well, 4th runner up, 1997.
Hello? Hello, sir? Can I help you?
I'm good, sweetheart.
I'm sorry. Sir, you cannot go back there. Sir, please stop.
Deidra. Listen, Truman knows about the trains.
I know, but I've gotta get to Laney.
Thank you for joining us.
Contestant number one, are you ready for your question?
Thank you.
If you could meet any person, living or dead,
who would you choose and why?
Miss Tanner?
Mary Tyler Moore, because she's done so much
to bring modern women to the media,
and she's the reason I want to be an actress.
-[applause] -No. That's my answer.
You ruined my dress, and you ruined my life!
You think your life is hard? You have no fucking clue!
Laney!
[Carlos] Okay, simmer down.
All right, tadpole. That's enough.
-You're coming with me. -Okay, okay.
This will only hurt a little.
[Laney] What are you doing? Get off of me! Let go!
-[grunts] -Get your hands off my student!
This so-called student is now under my jurisdiction.
There's no need to grab her like that.
-Hi, Carlos. -Hey, buddy. Jet, what the hell, man?
-Hi, Carlos. -Hey, buddy. Jet, what the hell, man? Come with me, man. God.
Come with me, man. God.
Clear a path. Clear a path.
Stop, what are you looking at me like that for?
Look, what you don't understand is I'm the best dad in the world
when I'm not there.
No. I'm there when they need me. I'm gone when they don't.
Okay, so you can stop looking at me like that.
-Yeah. You got Chet. -[Deidra] Chet.
I need you to get down to the train yard.
-Right now? -I need your help.
Truman's got Laney. But I've got a plan.
That cinder dick! I'll be right there. Hang on, Blammo.
Oh, thank God.
-Laney, are you okay? -I think so.
-Where's Truman? -He's looking for Deidra.
[Carlos] Let's get you out of here.
Do you have any idea where your sister is?
-[Laney] I don't know. -[train horn blaring]
Oh, oh, oh, oh! What the hell?
That's Deidra.
What the hell is she doing? She's trying to get herself arrested.
She's trying to get herself arrested.
Oh, no, she doesn't.
-Laney! -[Carlos] Laney!
-[Ms. Spencer] Laney! -[Jet] Laney?
[Deidra] Laney?
-What the hell are you doing? -You can't be here.
-Truman's waiting for you at the yard. -I know.
I am not gonna let you take the fall for this, okay?
I am the one who decided to rob trains.
-You got to hide. Get in this box. -No.
No. No!
Listen!
I knew it was a dumb idea, but we did this together. We stick together, and you don't get to make all the rules.
We stick together, and you don't get to make all the rules.
You're right. But right now, I need you to get in that box.
No!
You're not getting yourself arrested.
What are you talking about, arrested? I'm not gonna get arrested.
What do you think I am, an idiot?
Why are you throwing flaming boxes off the train?
Truman has a record, and I'm gonna provoke him.
-I'm gonna record him with my phone. -You're gonna need more proof.
I know. Laney, you need to stay out of this.
-Get in the box-- -Deidra!
What?
What's the one thing I'm really good at? Not being noticed.
Give me your phone. Trust me.
Well, if it isn't the valedictorian.
- Mr. Truman. - Detective Truman!
You teenagers think you're so smart, but what you don't know
is that I already have your little sister.
So why don't you come quietly?
No.
I've seen your record.
You lay one hand on me, and you'll lose your job.
I'm not gonna lose my job.
I'm gonna be a hero for exposing a family of train thieves.
With what proof?
I don't need proof. I just need to make an arrest.
Your mom has a record, your dad has a record.
You come from a lineage of screw-ups.
No one cares about people like you.
If you end up in prison, nobody in this town is gonna bat an eye.
Why are you smiling?
All right, get your hands behind your-- whoa!
Okay.
Oh, God.
-[grunts] Okay, sugar dumpling. -No! Let me go!
-Get off me! -You're all mine.
Stop it!
What are you doing up there? Hey!
Dee!
Dee!
I'm coming.
-Oh, my God. -[laughing]
-I got it. -What?
[Deidra, on video] With what proof?
[Truman, on video] I don't need proof. I just need to make an arrest.
-Oh, that's great. -Okay.
Now we just have to hope that that holds him until his boss gets here.
[Carlos] What the hell, man?
-You took away my bargaining chip! -Deidra!
-But he'll do. -Ow! Let go of me!
-Put the kid down, man. -I'm gonna arrest both of you.
Oh, my God, oh, my God.
-Jet! -Truman, give me a reason.
Put him down. I said put the kid down. Don't make me do this, Truman.
-Come on. Go ahead. -Hey, buddy!
Let go of my son.
Way to go, Dad.
-You know who taught me that? -Who?
-Kid Blammo. -[both chuckling]
-You took away my bargaining chip. -[Jet] Deidra! Deidra!
-[Truman] But he'll do. -[Jet] Ow! Let go of me!
[Carlos] Put the kid down, man.
Are you trying to make a fool out of me,
or are you trying to make a fool out of the company?
Neither. I am just trying to solve this case.
-I have evidence. -Just shut up!
You're under arrest,
and now I've gotta figure out a way to keep these people from suing us.
No!
Um, I can actually think of a couple of things that we need.
-How is your legal team? -You're a smart girl.
-Let's talk over here. -[Laney] He kinda--
I almost won the pageant, and then he ruined it.
[Chet] Oh. Forgot about her. Just let me do all the talking.
-Hi, Gloria. -Don't "Hi, Gloria" me.
Miss Tanner.
You left your brother with an unfit guardian.
He's not--
A man has a right to protect his family regardless of the law.
-What is he talking about? -Oh, that's, uh, Manifest Destiny.
Well, that doesn't make any sense.
I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to take the kids.
-Sorry. It's my job. -No. You don't--
-Mommy! -Hey! Oh, you guys are a mess.
Um... who are you?
I'm their mother.
-You could help me, you know? -I could, but I don't wanna.
See if I come home for Christmas now.
Don't say that.
Don't cry, glitter bunny.
I'll come home, I promise.
I have something for you.
[Deidra] Oh, Jet.
Mama. [sobbing]
You're gonna be the first Tanner to go to college.
And I love you so much. And I am so proud of you.
And I love you so much. And I am so proud of you. Yeah?
You go.
Okay. -Bye. -Okay.
I love you guys.
Hey!
Did I miss her?
Go inside.
You look better walking away, sweetheart.
♪ Where do we run to? ♪
Welcome back, students.
I know you may think that your future looks bleak.
You're probably thinking,
how could a kid like me in a school like this make anything of myself?
You're probably thinking I may as well make meth
or sell my body for money or start a fight club.
Or rob a train.
But you don't have to do that
because you have the best college and career planning counselor in the entire state.
Last year, I got one student into 27 top-tier colleges
and you idiots can do the same thing!
With my help, you're all going to college!
You're going to college! You're going to college! You're going to college!
I'm gonna revamp the hell out of this school! Say it with me!
College! College!
Look at them!
Look at them very carefully,
every single one of those faces,
and remember them dearly...
because tomorrow you'll pay the Devil's due.
Tomorrow you're heading straight against the wall.
What a speech.
I'm very touched.
I said, look at those photos!
You don't know what I sacrificed to finally catch you.
Sacrifice?
The door swings both ways, my friend.
My friend,
all the sacrifice...
is all for...
nothing!
Take the guns. You're all free now. Okay?
Here.
Thank you, boss.
Now, this is a real gun.
What the fuck?
2 MONTHS LATER
Sorry, the sutures aren't that great.
Who did this to you?
And who are you?
That'll work.
I'm sorry. I didn't want to do this.
Excuse me...
Miss?
Shit, shit, shit. Hey, hey, hey. Hello?
Where am I ?
You're in a hospital. You've been here for a while.
Any relatives? Family?
How about your name?
PATIENT DATA
Ish...
Ishmael.
What about your real name?
Be right back.
Everything will be all right.
Remember who taught you--
I'm sorry.
Ishmael, you can get up now.
What's this for?
It's just a precaution.
Thanks, doctor.
You can call me Ailin.
Anyway, let's get you dressed.
What's wrong, doctor? Tired?
Nothing, nothing. Let's go.
So, do you remember anything?
I see shadows.
But nothing feels familiar.
Look.
Just over there. That's where Romli found you.
That's him right there, Romli.
It's him you should be grateful to.
Don't be so tense.
Now let's eat. I'm starving.
Where is he, huh?
Patience, boss.
It won't be long now.
-That's it, I'm out of here. -Hold on--
Patience. It's the essence of success.
Please, sit. Sit down.
Okay, then. I'm digging in.
Now, this is tasty.
Want some?
Okay, Mr. Lee.
I respect you. So, I'll get straight to the point.
I'm cutting you loose.
Come again?
Your guns... Chinese junk.
And this...
Diluted crap.
I wanted to do business with you because of your reputation.
Lee, the sea devil.
Lee, the father from hell.
You see, getting rid of you will give me a certain reputation, too.
Why would I bring all these people just for a meeting with you?
So, that's why you bring all these people.
And the people outside.
I'll handle this.
Oh, shit!
He's... He's...
He's not my boss.
Chinese junk, huh?
The gun is good.
No, no, no. Wait, wait a second, bro-- I mean, boss.
Wait, wait, wait...
I got information. Important information.
For you.
The day you escaped.
They found a man by the beach, brought him to hospital.
My point is, I heard that he was very close to you.
Can I go now?
You fucking with me boy?
You fucking with me boy?!
Not there, please.
I'm not bullshitting. I gave you information.
Please! I swear!
I promise you, boss. I promise, I promise, I promise.
Please. Please. Please, don't kill me.
-Please, please. Give me a chance. -Okay. One chance.
Okay. I'm leaving now.
Fuck!
And now you can go to the hospital and check it out.
Fuck.
Why the fuck do I have to wait?
Just get the damn doctor. Bring him here.
Fix my ear, and you'll be done. It's that simple.
Please, sir. You're scaring the other patients.
You got eyes, right? Use your eyes. Look at my ear. Look!
Call the doctor. And fix my fucking ear!
Sir, please, you still need to fill out the form.
What the fuck? Are you kidding me?
-Got a death wish, honey? -Sir, just calm down.
What did you say?
I said, calm down, sir.
-Still can't hear. -This is a hospi--
-Shut the fuck up! -Sir!
Please calm down.
Shit.
It hurts like hell, doc.
Doc.
I heard they found a dying guy down by the beach.
-Tilt up. -And they brought him here.
I see a lot of patients.
So, you're not denying it. The beach boy was here.
You're hiding something, aren't you?
Yeah. Sto--
We're done. You can go now.
-About time. -Thank you.
Can't just leave me high and dry, doctor.
Where is he?
I'll call Security.
Go ahead, go for it.
Security!
Security.
Now look at me. Over here.
Quit the fucking games
and tell me where he is.
Unless you want to play games with me.
What the fuck?! Let me go!
Doc, are you all right?
Ishmael!
Take that, you fuck.
Ishmael. Are you okay? Ishmael.
Ishmael, are you okay?
Ishmael.
-Ishmael. -Yeah?
Did you recognize that guy?
Your reaction earlier had me worried.
It could be dangerous for you to stay here.
Maybe it's better for you to come with me to Jakarta?
Jakarta?
I'll show you something.
We found foreign particles in your skull,
right by the hippocampus area, and we couldn't extract them.
That's why I want you to come with me to Jakarta.
They have better facilities to remove them from your head.
Ishmael?
Ishmael?
Yes.
What say you?
What if I'm not a good person? Would you still be there for me?
Ishmael, you're not a bad person.
That's why I need to find out who I am.
I promise, whatever happens... we will meet again.
Here. Take it.
There's only one number on it.
After you find yourself,
look me up in Jakarta.
Bet you've never experienced a real traffic jam before.
And if I become a successful doctor,
don't expect free checkups.
Don't...
Relax. Take it easy.
I won't abandon you.
I'll show you again. These are your x-rays.
The particles went into your head...
Ishmael.
Ishmael.
Another episode? Ishmael?
Are you okay?
Sorry.
It's nothing. I'm okay.
Going to the ferry station, ready for departure.
That's my ride.
Fuck!
Thank you, sir. See you later.
Over here. Here, kid!
Why so sad?
Get over here.
What's going on here?
What's the matter?
Where is he?
Abdi?
Abdi?
Where is he?!
Hello?
Ailin?
-Ishmael. Ishmael. -Ailin? Ailin?
-They shot the driver. -Where are you?!
Mommy.
Mommy.
Mommy.
Mommy.
Wake up, Mommy.
Little girl.
Don't be sad.
Mommy is with God now.
Wait, wait, wait...
Where's Abdi?
Abdi? Who?
Wait, wait, wait. Your friend from the hospital.
He isn't here. He never left.
What is it now? Try hitting the pedals.
Hey, hey, hey. Wait, damn it. Where are you off to? Wait a sec.
Ailin!
Ailin.
Ailin.
Ailin.
Damn. Smells like shit.
Burn the bus, he said.
It stinks!
Sucks to be you.
Pass me the gasoline!
It's coming. Chop them up first so they'll burn easier.
-Who the fuck are you? -I'm just looking for a friend.
-Really? -Yes.
Is this your friend?
Shit.
What the fuck?!
Hey, hey, hey.
Go fucking die! Go die!
Fuck you!
Sir!
Sir!
Hang in there, sir.
Relax, kid. Easy now.
Please, sir. Sir! Just hang in there.
Sir!
Get him.
Damn.
What the fuck is this place?
Damn.
So, this is your hideout?
Pretty cool. But why bring the little kid, too?
She's useless! What's the point?
You know what your boss, Lee, told me?
Just bring the guy that he asked--
You talk too much.
Where's the little girl?!
POLICE
Hey.
Please focus.
Romli, local resident.
He your relation?
A friend.
Okay, a friend.
Now, tell me, what happened?
My friend was in the bus. She was with them.
Those dead people, you mean?
Yes, sir. But I didn't find her.
She's a doctor from Jakarta, her name's Ailin.
-Ailin. -Yeah.
So, who killed those people then?
Go on, tell me.
Sir, you have to believe me.
I have to find my friend. I have to find Ailin.
Out.
It's... just us now.
-See? -Yes.
Stop bullshitting me.
Or else I'll throw you in the fucking brig.
If you know anything about me, then go right ahead!
Do whatever you want!
But I don't have time for this.
Hey. Easy, easy. Relax.
Since you insist on being innocent...
Okay, look at this.
Do you recognize him? You know him?
Let me refresh your memory with a story.
This story might sound familiar to you.
Ishmael.
There was once a rumor...
about a mysterious young man.
Every time he appears,
he leaves a scene of massacre that turns the whole beach blood red.
Children, none older than 6 or 10, would disappear as well.
Do you want to know what happened to those children?
Those children grew up.
They were bred to become smugglers...
plunderers...
and killers.
Imagine that.
These brats have a stranglehold on this island.
Sons of bitches.
Everyone of them willing to die...
for their mysterious
terrorist master.
Now, one has to wonder.
Who is this person?
Even amongst criminals, he's a terrifying figure.
Few who live to tell the tale...
refer to him simply as "Lee."
What's it got to do with me?
Two months ago...
we hit the jackpot.
Right out of the blue,
we found Lee,
sitting out in the open.
Unarmed. Unguarded.
Imagine that.
Crazy.
But you see, Ishmael.
-It gets even crazier-- -You haven't answered my question.
What do you say now, scum?
Listen, I really don't know--
Turn the lights back on!
What the fuck is going on?
Who are you?
I am...
Come on, let's go.
Turn the power back on.
Abdi...
Three.
Four.
Hiding? Where the fuck are you?
I still wanna play.
Ah, fuck. Not bad--
Bro.
Hey, bro.
Wanna know what I did to that bitch of yours?
Fuck you!
So, you're the one? Abdi's savior.
What is he to you?
A good name, Abdi.
It's supposed to mean loyalty.
Who are you?
Don't kill him.
Tell him we got his woman.
Tejo?
I'm still here.
And I'll be coming.
You still remember your father, right, Abdi?
Lee.
That's my boy.
Ailin!
-Ishmael. -Ailin!
-Lee! Let her go! -You hear that?
You should've stabbed here.
I thought you were a doctor.
Do you remember it now?
All the memories from that fucking place?
You remember, right? He threw us into that well.
It's what separates him from other scum.
He took us from our parents.
He taught us how to survive and how to kill.
Days, even weeks, without food. Without water.
Yet... it's that very suffering that turned us into brothers.
That's not how it ends though.
Yeah.
A bottle of water could turn desperate kids into murderers.
Hence, the father from hell.
If you know all about it, why are you still on his side?
Everyone has to choose a side. Following that fucker is my fate.
You have a new lease on life. Why are you here?
Back off and I'll let you live.
Besi...
I can't back off now.
All this for the doctor?
Like you said, everyone has to choose a side.
This won't be as easy as Tejo or Tano.
Well done, Abdi.
Now comes the final drill.
Abdi...
Besi was always on your side.
And this is how you repay him?
You're tearing us apart, Abdi!
Remember me, Abdi?
Or should I call you Ishmael?
Where's Ailin?
Take me to her.
I don't know which makes me sadder,
watching you killing your own...
or seeing the sorry state you're in now.
Do you know how close we were?
Why does it have to change, Abdi?
Probably because you put a bullet in my head.
You betrayed father, right?
If you ask me to choose...
you know whom I would choose.
Rika...
this has been going for far too long. I don't wanna kill anymore.
So, it's all about her, right?
Leave Ailin out of this.
Since you want her that bad...
Rika!
Rika.
That's enough, Rika.
Rika.
That's enough.
Remember this place? We trained here as kids.
Even then, I always admired you, Abdi.
Those were the happiest moments.
Listen to me.
You can get away from Lee.
You have the choice to be free.
Rika.
Rika, no...
Now...
we're even.
Rika.
I remember everything.
You raised us to be wolves.
All we were good for was killing.
It was meant to make you all stronger.
Maybe so.
But it's all apparent now.
You're neither a legend, nor a father.
FREE OR DIE
Just an old man who bullies little kids.
In the end you made a mistake.
Okay.
Why don't you just come home.
We'll settle this.
I'm already here.
Hurry! Hurry!
Go hide in the corner.
Where's the key?
Get up.
Come on, get up.
Turn around.
-Why? -I said, turn around!
Stay still!
Fucking bitch!
You're both dead!
Bitch! You can't even shoot.
No, wait! Drop it!
Let's get the hell out.
Let's go. Let's go.
This way.
What was that?
Ailin.
It's me.
Ailin?
Ailin, are you all right?
Ailin...
I'm so sorry.
-Are you hurt bad? -Shut up!
Ailin, please calm down.
Get out of the way! We're leaving.
Yes, we will leave.
You're one of them.
You are exactly like them!
Yes.
You're right.
Everything that I've done to get away from them...
brought me to this day, this very second.
You saved me before.
I need you to save me one more time.
Ishmael...
Wake up! Wake up!
Why are you looking over there? Look at me.
I said, look at me!
I'm your father!
You...
are just a fucking dog that doesn't know the word "obey."
Where's Rika?
Is she dead?
You killed her?
She died a long time ago.
From the moment you pulled her out of that well.
All of them died when you first laid your hands on them.
Why? Why all this? What for?!
You're my son, Abdi! My son!
Abdi?
For every time you call me by that name...
So be it, then.
My son...
you know...
raising you was my greatest mistake...
and I have to pay for it.
And so will you...
Abdi.
Lee!
Ishmael.
Ishmael.
Ishmael.
Don't close your eyes, Ishmael.
Ishmael. Just look at me.
Ishmael. Ishmael.
Don't leave me.
Please... Ishmael.
This feels familiar.
So, how's Jakarta?
At least the bed's better this time.
Just wait until you get out.
You've experienced nothing yet.
So, please...
Don't make me wait another two months this time.
Okay?
Okay?
PATIENT DIAGNOSIS
NAME:
JUNE 15TH, 1991
01:35 AM
Please, calm down so I can understand you. -What happened? -Please, you have to come!
-What happened? -Please, you have to come! He's inside! He's inside!
Please, calm down. Tell me what you're seeing.
Is there someone in your house?
Hello?
Detective! That's the building there, 3C.
He's here.
Mom! Mom!
-What happened? -Detective!
We're going to send someone right away. I need your address.
8 Gerardo Núñez Street.
Are you still there?
Hello?
Calling all units, we have a 402 at 8 Gerardo Núñez Street.
Any available cars please respond. I repeat, 8 Gerardo Núñez Street.
EARLY MORNING, JUNE 15TH, 1991, MADRID POLICE STATION 02-12
EARLY MORNING, JUNE 15TH, 1991, MADRID POLICE STATION 02-12 RECEIVED AN EMERGENCY PHONE CALL.
THIS STORY IS BASED ON THE POLICE REPORT
FILED BY THE DETECTIVE IN CHARGE OF THE CASE.
It's confirmed. There are four kids, two more are upstairs.
THREE DAYS EARLIER
THURSDAY, JUNE 12TH, 1991
Irene, you get the bathroom first.
Lucía, let's go! Get up.
Don't make any noise.
Come on, buddy, get up.
Let's go to school.
I want to go to school.
You want to go to school? Great.
-You wet the bed again? -Yeah.
Come here.
Tell Irene to clean you up in the bathroom.
Vero! -What's wrong? -Irene won't let me in.
-What's wrong? -Irene won't let me in.
-I'm taking a shower! -Stop yelling!
-I'm taking a shower! -Stop yelling! He peed himself again. Clean him up, you're older than him.
He peed himself again. Clean him up, you're older than him. Fine.
I heard you. I'm older, I came out first.
-Did you heat the milk? -No.
Quite the older sister you are.
Lucía! Pay attention, please!
The teacher said to bring pictures to look at the eclipse.
-Pictures? -Yeah.
Your turn. Not pictures. Negatives, to shield our eyes.
Gross! The towel smells like chicken. You smell like wet chicken.
-Stop it! Vero! -Lucía, leave Irene alone.
Take one of the towels hanging outside.
-Okay... -Your shoes are untied.
You could have told me about the pictures last night.
-Me, me, me. -Fine, you do it.
-Everything OK? -Yeah.
We had a birthday party and closed at 2 AM last night.
I'm exhausted.
I came to get a picture for a class project. You rest.
I'm going to sleep some more. I'll see you later.
-What's up? -I won't wet the bed tomorrow.
-What? -I won't wet the bed tomorrow!
Good! OK, go inside.
-How are you? -Fine.
-You have fun? -Yeah.
You know the earth always revolves around its own axis.
It also revolves around the sun.
But the moon, which is a satellite, revolves around the earth.
When the moon goes between the sun and the earth,
an astronomical phenomenon occurs, and we call this a solar eclipse.
The moon's shadow is cast on the earth's surface.
It's interesting, because it's subjective. It depends on the subject looking at it.
What we see here today in Madrid is not what they see in Barcelona, or in Paris.
Next slide, please.
We can clearly see two different areas:
the shadow, or umbra area, and the penumbra area.
The umbra has no light, in total darkness.
DO YOU HAVE IT? The penumbra is the fragile shadow area.
Superstition has given many explanations for eclipses.
Next slide, please.
Primitive cultures believed that the sky reflected what happened on earth.
So they believed that during eclipses darkness reigned over light.
In many cultures, they thought that eclipses were a good time for sacrifices.
were a good time for sacrifices.
Next slide, please.
Even human sacrifices.
In fact, they'll explain it better in History class,
but the Maya believed that human blood was...
Well, we're out of time.
We have to go see the eclipse, but when we come back, we'll talk about the different kinds.
Sara, help me with the window, please.
If you don't have a picture, take it from the box over there, OK?
OK.
And remember not to look at the sun, only look through the negative.
-Wait a minute. -No, let's go.
-Just a second. -Girls, upstairs!
-Rosa, turn the projector off. -OK.
Wait... What's wrong?
We have to wait for Diana. The one who got held back?
Yeah, I told her what we were doing and she wants to come.
Rosa, it was supposed to be between the two of us.
Well, now it's between us, and Diana. She's really nice, anyway. Besides...
Remember Manolo? With the spiked hair?
The one who died in a motorcycle wreck! -He was her boyfriend. -Why'd you have to tell her?
-He was her boyfriend. -Why'd you have to tell her? Sorry, it just slipped out.
But everybody knows it works better with odd numbers.
Everyone's upstairs. The coast is clear now.
Begoña, what is this junk? Not with these!
Get in place, it's about to start. Come on, over here. Look, the negatives and the...
Look, the negatives and the...
Gross!
Stay together. It's this way!
Hey, wait for me!
Here.
This is disgusting. Have you guys done this before?
Yeah, in my village. You said you have too, right?
Yeah, but with paper cut-outs, you know?
Never with an official board.
THE GREAT ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE OCCULT
THE GREAT ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE OCCULT They're dead, but that doesn't mean they know everything, right?
What did you bring? A picture.
What is that?
You need a personal item of the person you want to contact.
A picture isn't a personal item!
Of course it is!
It's personal if it belongs to the person in the picture.
I didn't bring any of Manolo's stuff.
Can you see it? The moon is going between.
See the ring? See it? Look, it's the solar ring.
I can't believe it!
Always look through... Look at it with this, OK?
Always look through... Look at it with this, OK? It's so beautiful!
It says to put your index finger on the glass.
-Close your eyes. -Why?
Because you make contact faster.
Is anyone with us?
Is there anyone here with us?
It wasn't me, I swear!
Who are you?
You want to talk to one of us?
Are you...? Are you Verónica's Dad?
Do you want to talk to Verónica?
S...
P...
Y...
I spy. -What do you spy? -With my little eye...
-What do you spy? -With my little eye...
-What are you, a dumbass? -You're the dumbass!
-What are you, a dumbass? -You're the dumbass! I know you're moving it.
Vero, did you move it?
Who are you?
It burns!
Vero, are you OK? What's happening?
Vero!
Vero! Please, Vero, let's go! Please, Vero!
Find the flashlight! Diana, the flashlight!
-Where is it? -Over there!
-Rosa, I can't see! -Fuck!
Here it is! I've got it, I've got it here.
Fuck!
The board is broken.
Where's Verónica?
Verónica?
Verónica!
-Diana, go get help now! -We're gonna get in trouble.
OK, shut up!
Verónica.
Verónica! What's wrong?
What are you saying?
Verónica.
Can you hear me?
What happened to me?
You fainted.
Follow my finger.
We tried to call your Mom, but we couldn't get ahold of her.
She's working.
Have you ever fainted like this before?
No.
Did you eat breakfast?
Yes.
Are you diabetic?
Verónica! Would you listen to me?
Are you diabetic?
I don't know. Blood sugar, any problems?
I don't know.
Family history with diabetes?
I don't think so.
Did you take any drugs?
-Pot, pills...? -No, no.
-You sure? -I'm sure.
Are you on your period?
-Verónica, how old are you? -Fifteen.
And you haven't had your period?
It's probably low blood pressure.
You might have an iron deficiency.
If you can, I recommend eating red meat today.
Rest here for a few minutes. Class is almost over.
-That's so cool! -Girls!
We always have to wait for you!
What happened to your hand? I cut it on some glass during recess.
Will you let me see?
-Where's Rosa? -She left already.
-She didn't wait for me? -You missed the eclipse.
The sun was totally dark.
It was really cool.
Why weren't you there? I was in the nurse's office. Hey, don't tell Mom about this.
I was in the nurse's office. Hey, don't tell Mom about this.
-About what? -About my cut, OK?
-Zip your lips... -Zip your lips...
Zip your lips...
and throw away the key.
Come on, let's go.
-What's wrong, Irene? -Sister Death is looking at you.
But she's blind, she can't see anything.
-Wasn't she deaf? -No, blind, not deaf.
BEST MOM IN THE WORLD
-Hi, Mom! -Hey there!
Can I have money to play Martians? Fine, you take it.
But just one round, then you go home, OK?
-Ana, bring the dessert, dammit! -Mom?
-Not in front of the kids, man! -Mom!
Give me the desserts for the 7! Stop for a second, please.
Why do you cover up such a beautiful face?
Mom!
I'll give you Tupperware with macaroni for tonight.
Mom! Get Antoñito and go home to eat.
Come on!
I'm starving, my stomach is rumbling.
-They're farts. -You're the one farting.
Farts, farts, farts...
-Irene, heat up the food. -Why me?
-I always have to do it! -Antoñito, go wash your hands.
Because I'm the favorite.
What's that?
Nothing. Go set the table.
Vero!
Didn't I tell you to set the table?
You keep an eye on it.
-This much? -Yeah.
Then, in front of the sun, there was...
-It was all black and dark. -It was the moon!
You didn't understand what the science teacher said.
Imagine a black ball and then a yellow ball.
The black one covers the yellow one, which is the sun.
-Irene, can you get some milk? -You get it!
Rock, paper or scissors?
Rock, paper, scissors. One, two, three. Now!
-I won! -No, best two out of three.
Rock, paper, scissors. One, two, three. Now!
Rock, paper, scissors. One, two, three. Now!
Crap!
I beat you, I beat you, I beat you...
-You cheated. -I cheated? You cheated!
I never complain when you win.
There's no milk left in the fridge, over.
It's in the pantry, over.
Verónica?
Verónica?
Hello?
Irene, come here. Verónica's all frozen up.
Verónica?
Verónica?
-Verónica! -Good thing it says easy-open.
Verónica!
What happened? You weren't moving.
And you puked. Are you OK?
I'm fine. Clean this up, please.
Yeah, OK. Yeah, I'll tell her.
Bye-bye.
-Who was it? -Rosa.
Why didn't you give me the phone?
She said she couldn't come, she has to run some errands with her mom.
She didn't ask to talk to me?
No.
Hello? Hi, it's Verónica. Is Rosa there?
Hi, Vero. No, she isn't here.
But she just called. She just went out the door with Diana...
I thought all three of you were meeting.
Vero. Yeah, yeah. I'm running late.
Tell her not to forget that she has to be home by eight.
OK, I'll let her know.
Thanks, sweetheart. See you soon.
Centella gives me time to enjoy,
Centella, Centella.
-Nine. -Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Girls, put your PJs on.
Seven! You're in the bathroom!
Doesn't count! Vero told. Let's start over.
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Antoñito, that's enough! You sound like a parrot!
If you don't know the jingle, why are you singing it?
Yeah, yeah.
I see you...
Oh, time to myself...
Oh, time for life...
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Centella...
Girls, behave.
Scrub hard, I'll be right back.
Girls, please.
What?
Oh, time to myself, time for life...
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Vero. Vero!
Antoñito!
Antoñito!
-Vero! -Antoñito!
Vero!
Antoñito! Antoñito, what's wrong?
-Vero! -It burns!
What happened?
-What is that? -It burns.
Did you touch the faucet?
I didn't do anything.
One, two, three, guess!
-A bird. -No.
A flower. No.
A dog. Turn over.
One, two, three, guess!
-A balloon! -Yes!
I'm sorry I put the water on so hot.
It wasn't you.
What? It wasn't you.
What did you say?
I won't wet the bed tomorrow.
Centella gives me time to enjoy,
Centella, Centella.
Centella gives me a shiny floor, Centella, Centella.
Oh, time to myself. Oh, time for life.
Centella gives me time to enjoy, Centella, Centella.
What are you doing here?
Verónica...
Verónica...
Dad?
FRIDAY, JUNE 13TH, 1991
08:29 AM
Antoñito, what's wrong? It just leaked out.
It's 8:30?
-Come on, run! -Why's it always Verónica's fault?
-No, no, don't close! -Please, just a second!
-By the skin of your teeth. -Thank you.
Thank you!
Bécquer's "Legends" started
with an introduction to transport the reader back in time.
A character would warn the protagonist about a prohibition,
and then, this main character would cross the allowed limit
and suffer punishment for their infraction.
Alonso and Beatriz die because of Beatriz's imprudence
when she forced Alonso to go up of the Mount of Spirits on All Saints Day.
In "The Kiss," Lope de Ayala attacks his captain for profaning the statue of Doña Elvira.
his captain for profaning the statue of Doña Elvira.
In short, no one escapes the consequences of passing the limit that divides reality from fantasy.
of passing the limit that divides reality from fantasy.
Please open your copy of "Legends,"
we're going to read "The Mount of Spirits" together.
So I'll start.
"On the night of the dead, the pealing of the bells
woke me at who knows what hour;
the monotonous and eternal tolling brought to mind this tradition..."
-Yes? -May I go to the bathroom?
Of course.
"Once prodded, the imagination is a horse run wild..."
BATHROOM
You know when you go inside a house, and they've just made French toast?
It's easy to tell the smell.
That smell of cinnamon...
Fried bread...
Warm milk.
If you close your eyes, it's like they're on a dish in front of you.
You could almost take a bite.
I was a Language and Lit teacher.
The French toast is a metaphor.
-What grade are you in? -Ninth.
So you know what a metaphor is, right?
And you also know we aren't talking about desserts.
-Do you smoke? -No.
Good.
They call you Sister Death.
I know.
-That doesn't bother you? -No.
I like it. Better than Sister Narcisa, right?
What's in your hand?
How do you know I'm holding something?
You don't always need eyes to see.
Can I see?
What you did here is really dangerous.
I just wanted to talk to my Dad.
It's not who you want to talk to. It's who you talk to.
If it isn't my Dad, then who is it?
-You have siblings, don't you? -Three of them.
You'll have to protect them.
Protect them from what?
You all stop moving!
Stop moving!
You all stop moving!
Don't move!
But I'm alone.
No.
You aren't alone.
Someone answered your call.
And now walks with you.
Don't move.
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
leave this body that does not belong to you.
Recess is over, girl.
Run, run, run.
Maybe you'll get away.
Rosa!
Hi!
Who's that?
Felipe, my cousin's classmate from trade school.
-What did you want? -Are you mad at me?
Vero, why would I be mad at you?
You didn't come over yesterday.
I had to go with my Mom, didn't your sister tell you?
It's because of yesterday, isn't it?
The ouija board is stupid. You say dumb stuff and move a glass.
You noticed something, too.
Rosa!
-You saw it, too, didn't you? -Saw what, Vero?
-You saw it, too, didn't you? -Saw what, Vero? -Since yesterday, I've been seeing... -Rosa!
We have to go quick, the store is going to close.
-Are you coming? -Where?
We're throwing a party because Rosa's parents are gone this weekend.
Why didn't you tell me?
Dude, she's telling you now.
Besides, I doubt you can come, right?
You have to babysit your brother and sisters.
Let's go.
Vero!
-Drop by if you can. -Come on, we're late!
Lucía, stop copying my homework!
THE GREAT ENCYCLOPEDIA OF THE OCCULT
This is boring! It's always the same!
Antoñito, that's enough! Go play in your room.
Lucía, stop copying your sister's homework, you won't learn!
-I learn when I copy, too. -You're such a piece of work.
You're going to do it, anyway. Why do you care? You're so selfish!
You're always the same! Then you do it one day and I'll copy!
We could do rock, paper, scissors but you do it better.
It's not that I do it better...
You have siblings, don't you? You'll have to protect them.
Representing Madrid, Lucía Gomez, 19 years old,
she is a doctor, lawyer, lifeguard and firefighter.
But there's a secret nobody knows about Miss Madrid:
she's a robot! And the robot has super duper smart artificial intelligence.
And the robot has super duper smart artificial intelligence.
Miss Madrid, soon to be contender for Miss Spain.
What's that?
A thing we made in class.
How ugly!
Take that, Miss Madrid!
Will she win the crown as Miss Spain?
Yes or no? Soon in theaters near you.
Miss Madrid is 25 years old, has 7 children and she loves singing...
Who is it?
Josefa.
-Where's your Mom? -At the bar.
Uh-huh. Wanna tell me what you all are up to?
What's wrong?
The lamps! Are you dancing or what?
The lamps won't stop shaking!
-We're not doing anything. -Really?
It looks like my ceiling is going to crash on me.
Something else: I've got a huge black stain, right on top of your bedroom.
You have moisture problems?
-I don't know, I'll tell my Mom later. -Yeah, right!
If you see her, that is, huh?
You'll sleep well tonight with all that running around.
Fucking kids.
Shit!
Verónica.
What are you doing awake?
Lucía, it isn't funny. I can see your room from here.
Help us. You're the one who called it.
Don't let it hurt us.
Irene!
Lucía!
Lucía!
Girls, wake up!
Lucía!
Vero! Vero!
What are you doing?
There was someone here who wanted to hurt you.
There's no one in here!
We can't see it, but it's here.
Look!
The amulets got burned.
Take your mattresses, let's go.
We're sleeping together in the living room.
I'm getting Antoñito.
Vero.
Go to sleep.
Why were you choking me?
I wasn't choking you. I was protecting you.
From who?
From something bad that came inside the house.
Who came inside the house? Josefa?
No.
A being from the other side. An evil being.
A ghost?
A spirit?
Don't be scared. I'll protect you guys.
Because you're the oldest?
-I'm glad you're my big sister. -I'm glad you're my little sister.
I'm not little. I'm in the middle, because Irene came out after.
That's right.
Go to sleep. I'll keep watch.
-Sorry, what's going on? -It's a festival in Benahavis!
Verónica...
Vero, what's wrong?
What's going on?
It's back.
What's this?
-Mommy! -Mommy!
Can you tell me what's going on here?
-A bad man wanted to kill Lucía. -Lucía, are you OK?
Someone came in the house?
No, they didn't come inside. They were already here.
-Vero! -Nothing happened, Mom.
But was someone in the house or not?
-No. -Yes.
-I'm calling the police. -A spirit.
-What? -Yeah, a ghost.
I didn't see it, but Vero did.
-Were you watching scary movies again? -Kind of.
Don't worry, Mom. Vero protects us from the spirit.
Come on, let's pick all this up and go to bed.
And you go to your room!
-But, Mom... -No buts! Go to your room.
What happened?
-Tell me! -Nothing.
Your sisters are little and they've got a huge imagination.
Don't give them weird ideas because then they can't sleep.
How do you know if they can or can't sleep?
You're never home! You don't know what goes on here.
So what goes on here?
-He wants to hurt us! -Who?
I don't know! I'm the one who called him with the ouija board.
You played the ouija board with your sisters?
-No, with Rosa! -But...
Why are you playing with such dark things?
I wanted to talk to Dad.
I know you don't care.
You stuffed his pictures in a box so you don't have to look at him.
Don't say that!
-I just wanted to talk to him! -That's enough!
You're reading too much of that stuff, and it's having an effect on you.
It's the truth.
Vero...
I need you to grow up.
I need to be able to count on you. Because I'm on my own.
I'm the one on my own.
You're not making it easy. I'm really tired.
We'll talk more tomorrow.
-Vero! -Vero, get up!
-Wake up! -Come on!
-Come on! -Get up!
-Let's go! -Leave me alone, let me sleep!
-We're hungry! -Come on!
We've got lots to do!
We're hungry!
-What are you doing? -We're hungry!
Get out, leave me alone!
-Come on! -Get up!
Let's play a game. Give me your arm.
What are you talking about?
What are you doing?
Stop it!
Stop! Don't!
Mom! Mom! Help me, Mom!
Mom, help me!
Mom, Mom!
Mom!
Leave me alone! Mom!
Mom!
Mom, help me!
Mom...
Help me, Mom.
-She can't hear you. -Mom!
I need you to grow up.
Mom!
Mom...!
Mom!
Mom!
SATURDAY, JUNE 14TH, 1991 10:40 AM
-Did you make breakfast? -Wait for the show to finish.
Always the same, I'm sick of you guys!
Wait.
Why's this book here? You don't know how to read!
Dad came to read it to me.
Come again?
Dad came to read it to me.
-Dad came? -He's coming back again tonight.
What else did he say?
That he's going to take me to where he lives.
Antoñito, listen to me.
Listen.
If he comes back, don't listen to him, OK?
Plug your ears.
How do you plug your ears?
Great, like that.
And you call me, OK?
Yell my name really loud. OK?
Kids, let's go!
-Hi, Mom! -Hey there!
-What are you doing here? -I need to go to Rosa's house.
-Right now? -For homework. Can they stay here?
-Yeah. But come back soon! -OK!
They're right. You're a crazy old woman.
-Then why are you back? -You can see the shadows, like me!
Maybe we're both crazy.
I've been trying to stop seeing them for a long time.
I did this to myself, you know?
Back then I didn't know you don't need eyes to see.
I don't know how to protect myself from them.
Amulets and crosses don't work, they don't scare them!
Crosses? God has got nothing to do with it.
Leave Him out of it.
How can I make them go away?
The same way they came in.
They have to go back through the door you opened.
Bid them farewell.
Then you'll have to destroy it.
-Destroy the ouija board? -No, the door!
You have to do right what you did wrong.
What's wrong?
Sister, again?
I don't know how you can get all the way down here.
What are you doing here on a Saturday?
Sister was helping me with a project.
She's in no condition to help anyone. This way, Sister.
The answer is in the books.
Look what great advice she gives.
You have to do right what you did wrong.
Careful, Sister.
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You should never end a séance without..."
"You should never end a séance without..."
Without what?
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You have to do right..."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You should never end a séance without saying goodbye.
Whatever you don't say goodbye to, stays with you.
If it doesn't work, try again another time."
"Whatever you don't say goodbye to, stays with you."
You have to do right what you did wrong.
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
The answer is in the books.
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"Whatever you don't say goodbye to, stays with you."
You have to do right what you did wrong.
"Whatever you don't say goodbye to, stays with you."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
"You should never end a séance without saying goodbye."
"You have to do right what you did wrong."
Hi.
You made it.
Rosa, I know what we have to do.
-Why'd you bring that? -We have to do it again!
-What? -We didn't say goodbye!
Whatever you don't say goodbye to, stays with you.
-What? -It says so right here.
-Cut the bullshit. -We have to do it again!
-Put it away! -Let's go to your room.
-Please, don't. -Where's Diana?
-Calm down! -Where's Diana?
-Put it away! -Diana!
-Let's go to your room. Diana! -Verónica!
Diana!
-Where's Diana, have you seen her? -Shut up.
-Verónica! -Diana!
Have you seen Diana?
Have you seen Diana?
What are you talking about?
Diana! Have you seen Diana?
-No. -Who is Diana?
Diana!
-Diana! -No, what's your problem?
Diana!
-You haven't seen her? -Verónica, please.
Diana!
Diana!
Diana.
Diana, come here.
-What the fuck are you doing? -Come on, we have to do it.
-Do what? -The three of us together.
-Let me go, you're crazy! -Come on, Diana!
-Leave me alone! -Let go of me!
-Kicking you the hell out! -Come on, Diana, Rosa!
Rosa! Rosa!
Rosa, we have to do it again.
-You don't remember, do you? -Remember what?
You whispered something to me the other day.
What did I say? Tell me, Rosa!
You said you were going to die today.
-What? -Vero, I'm sorry.
-What did you say? -We were scared, we didn't...
What's that?
Did you bite yourself?
No, Rosa. I didn't.
Come on, let's go.
Rosa!
Rosa!
Rosa!
Mom!
Hey, you're in the way!
Can we go home now?
Wait.
Mom!
Where were you all day?
Take the kids, they can't stay here forever!
Give me the leftovers for the kids. Coming!
Mom!
Mom!
What?
Mom, close the bar.
Right now, let's all go somewhere.
What are you talking about?
Mom, it doesn't come when you're home.
Here we go again...
I'd love to close and eat with you, but I can't.
-Ana! -Coming.
Look...
Want to go to the park tomorrow?
To spend the day, like before.
What do you think? I'll make sandwiches to eat there.
You want to?
Ana, the leftovers!
You grab them.
Kids, let's go.
Finally!
-Let's go. -Are we going home?
Let's go, sweetheart.
Verónica!
Verónica!
Goal!
Pedro Riesco scored. After Ribera's mistake, the first goal in the game for the team...
the first goal in the game for the team...
You have to do right what you did wrong.
-We're going to play a game. -What game?
We're going to play a game where you have to do what I say.
This game sucks.
Grab the candles in the top drawer.
Antoñito, draw this on the hallway walls.
-OK! -Great.
I get to draw on the wall.
Mom's going to ground you until you're at least 40.
Move the furniture. We need to have space.
SATURDAY, JUNE 14TH, 1991 11:45 PM
VIKING SYMBOLS OF PROTECTION
SYMBOLS OF INVOCATION
Not you. Just the three of us. Sit over there.
You guys close your eyes.
Is anyone here with us?
Is there anyone here with us?
Who's here with us?
Are you here?
Yes.
We're here to say goodbye to you.
You need to leave this place.
No.
We command you! Repeat after me, girls.
We command you!
This isn't your house!
Leave!
This isn't your house!
Leave!
This isn't your house!
"To properly conclude the séance and bid farewell,
participants should sing a mantra or a soft song."
-We didn't do that, either. -What's a mantra?
I don't know.
-But it says a soft song works, too. -Which one?
One all three of us know.
Centella.
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Centella, Centella.
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
What is that?
Centella, Centella.
Time to myself, time for life,
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Centella, Centella.
Girls, keep going. We can't stop.
Time for life...
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Centella, Centella.
Time to myself, time for life,
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Centella, Centella, time to myself...
Come on, don't stop!
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Centella, Centella.
Gross, it stinks.
Centella gives me time to enjoy.
-Lucía, don't stop. -Centella, Centella.
Centella gives me time to enjoy...
Centella, Centella.
Keep singing! Don't stop singing!
Wait here.
Don't leave.
He's here!
-This is the police. -Help! Help, please!
Please, calm down so I can understand you.
-What happened? -Please, help us! He's inside!
-He's inside! -There's someone in the house?
Calm down. We're going to send someone right away. I need your address.
8 Gerardo Núñez Street.
Antoñito, stay here! What are you doing?
Antoñito!
No!
He's in the bathroom! Antoñito!
Antoñito!
Antoñito! Antoñito, Antoñito!
Antoñito!
Girls, stay there! He's in the bathroom.
Antoñito!
Antoñito!
Antoñito!
Antoñito?
Antoñito?
Are you OK, buddy?
Are you OK?
Let's go.
Girls! Girls!
Girls, where are you? Irene, where's your sister?
Irene!
Irene!
Lucía, let's go!
Let's go! Run!
Come on, run! Let's go!
Paco, the cops!
What's going on?
Girls, run! Faster, come on!
Hurry! Let's go! Run, girls, run!
Open the door.
-Vero! -Vero!
Where's Antoñito?
SUNDAY, JUNE 15TH, 1991 01:50 AM
Mom! Mom! Mom!
What happened? What happened?
Where's Antoñito, where's Vero?
Where's Vero?
Antoñito!
Antoñito?
Antoñito.
Vero. Vero. Vero. -Vero, Vero... -Antoñito, come on.
-Vero, Vero... -Antoñito, come on.
-Vero, Vero, Vero... -Antoñito, let's go.
-Vero, Vero, Vero... -Antoñito, it's me.
No, no, no, no.
If he comes back,
don't listen to him, OK?
Plug your ears.
And you call me, OK?
Yell my name really loud.
Vero, Vero, Vero...
Vero, Vero, Vero...
You have siblings, don't you?
You'll have to protect them.
Don't worry, Mom. Vero protects us from the spirit.
You're reading too much of that stuff, and it's having an effect on you.
Vero! Vero!
What are you doing?
We can't see it, but it's here.
Why were you choking me?
I wasn't choking you.
I was protecting you.
-Did you touch the faucet? -I didn't do anything.
Antoñito!
I'm sorry I put the water on so hot.
Did you move it?
Did you bite yourself?
It wasn't you.
Someone answered your call.
And now walks with you.
If it isn't my Dad, then who is it?
It's me.
It's me.
It's me.
It's me.
Vero, Vero...
Buddy, come here. It's OK.
Come with me. That's it.
-Where's Vero? -Vero? She's fine.
Pellicer, send the medics up. I repeat, send the medics up.
Vero! Vero!
Sweetie...
Vero...
Detective.
Go ahead.
The girl just died.
SUNDAY, JUNE 15TH, 1991 02:00 AM
JUNE 15TH, 1991, DETECTIVE JOSÉ RAMÓN ROMERO
WENT TO THE HOME ON 8 GERARDO NUÑEZ STREET,
IN RESPONSE TO AN EMERGENCY CALL.
IN THEIR STATEMENT, FAMILY MEMBERS DECLARED
THAT AFTER A SÉANCE WITH THE OUIJA BOARD,
THE GIRL HAD SEVERAL STRANGE SYMPTOMS
AND PARANORMAL EVENTS TOOK PLACE AT THE HOME.
TWO OF THE INSPECTING AGENTS SUDDENLY HAD TO LEAVE
THE BUILDING, DUE TO NAUSEA, DIZZINESS AND SHAKING.
THEY REMAINED 2 WEEKS OFF THE FORCE.
ONE MONTH AFTER THE EVENTS, ROMERO REQUESTED A TRANSFER.
IN THE INSPECTOR'S REPORT, ROMERO SPEAKS OF PHENOMENA
Go! Go!
Fuck!
Got you! There's nowhere to run!
MAN: Welcome, everybody, to tonight's weighing in!
First up onto the scales, we have Wes "The Jailor" Baylor!
One-seventy! -[cheering] -Whoo!
We cannot forget his opponent, for he cannot fight this fight alone in the ring.
Here we go, baby.
Here we go, baby. -We have Jonny -I'm proud of you. "Solid Gold" Sutherland!
One-sixty-eight!
I'll see you in the ring, motherfucker.
Get ready 'cause I'm not playing.
And we'll see you tomorrow night!
MAN: What a night. I've been waiting for this night. Tension is so high.
Baylor is out to get Sutherland. Sutherland is out to get Baylor.
It's just a matter of who wants it more. That's it.
CORNERMAN: Come on. Use that jab.
ANNOUNCER: Oh, Sutherland gives a couple of kicks.
Baylor comes back.
He punches, he kicks!
This is crazy. Oh, yeah, this is starting--
this is starting faster than I thought it would.
...with a lift, and Baylor's on the floor!
Baylor's on the floor.
CORNERMAN: Sink it, sink it, man!
-Baylor gets Sutherland -[dinging] in a headlock.
-And the first round is over. -Go back to your corners.
ANNOUNCER: That was charged with energy, folks. That was insane. That was crazy.
That was insane. That was crazy.
Here's some water. Come on.
SPECTATOR: You're my one, girl! ANNOUNCER: All right, folks, round two.
COACH: Move!
Get in his head. Move!
Get in his head. Move! -Come on. Turn him! -Come on. Move!
-Come on. Turn him! -Come on. Move!
ANNOUNCER: He's struggling out of it.
And Baylor frees himself, punches, just missed Sutherland.
Look at these longtime sparring partners go at each other.
ANNOUNCER: Oh, my God! A roundhouse to Baylor's face!
-Back it up. -Give him some room.
Get up.
In your corner.
SPECTATOR: Yeah, baby!
Don't know about the first, but you definitely lost the second.
You can't leave it up to the judges, okay?
Remember that, and keep the jab. Keep the jab always.
Remember that, and keep the jab. Keep the jab always. Get out there and do your bloody business.
Get out there and do your bloody business.
Just tell me what I gotta do!
You gotta knock him out. Take his head off.
You gotta knock him out. Take his head off. Now, get in there! Come on! Pull it together!
Now, get in there! Come on! Pull it together!
Go! [bell dinging]
MAN: Come on, Wes!
CORNERMAN: Hands up!
CORNERMAN: Finish him, Wes! Finish him!
Put him away, Wes. Put him away.
ANNOUNCER: And Sutherland is down!
Oh, my God! And Sutherland is down! [echoing]
ANNOUNCER: Oh, my God. He's still down.
Sutherland is still down.
He's not even moving. Oh, my God.
He's not even moving. Oh, my God. Somebody help Sutherland. Somebody go up--
Wes, help him!
Jonny! [echoing]
Jonny! [echoing]
No matter how this turns out, win or lose,
No matter how this turns out, win or lose, you're family, all right?
JONNY'S VOICE: You're always gonna be welcome out at the beach house.
WES: What beach house?
The one I'm gonna buy from kicking your ass. with the money I get
-What if I kick your ass? -Then you can buy me the beach house.
JONNY'S VOICE: This is to remind you of all the time we spent training for this,
and how it paid off.
Jonny.
WOMAN'S VOICE: I don't know how best friends can do this to each other.
WES'S VOICE: Kay, don't worry about it.
We kick the shit out of each other in the gym on a daily basis.
We kick the shit out of each other in the gym on a daily basis. The difference here? We're gonna get paid for it.
The difference here? We're gonna get paid for it. KAY'S VOICE: Wes? Jonny didn't make it. He's dead.
KAY'S VOICE: Wes? Jonny didn't make it. He's dead.
Are you guys ready? CROWD: Yeah!
I said, "Are you guys ready?" Yeah!
Fight!
Hey. Good to see you. Having a good night?
Hey, good to see you. Welcome.
-I should put you in that fight. -[man laughs]
-You just won me -Already got paid. three thousand bucks.
MAN [chuckles]: Not enough for this shit.
I'm Jonah. Aldrich.
Come from a family of fight promoters.
-I'm not on the MMA circuit. -Never heard of you.
-I'm not on the MMA circuit. -Never heard of you. Then neither are you these days.
Look. [clears throat] For what it's worth, I think it sucks how they treated you.
For what it's worth, I think it sucks how they treated you.
After Sutherland, you deserved a title shot.
Wasn't your fault what happened, yet here you are,
risking your neck for chump change.
It's just not right.
Listen, uh, Mr.--
Aldrich.  Aldrich.
I didn't get the shit kicked out of me by Bruce Lee over there
so that you could bullshit me to death.
-What do you want? -I want to give you a second chance.
-You want to give me -Yeah, I do. [laughs] a second chance?
I'm putting together something special.
A one-off fight in Myanmar.
Winner takes home half a million.
[chuckles] Not interested.
[laughing] Really?
And how long is it before some lunatic comes along and just caves your head in?
For what? A hundred bucks and a shot of tequila. Actually, it's 400, [clicks tongue]
Actually, it's 400, [clicks tongue] and two shots of tequila.
One fight.
One last payday, and you're set for life.
Madden, give Mr. Baylor our particulars.
JONNY'S VOICE: You're always gonna be welcome out at the beach house.
WES'S VOICE: What beach house?
The one I'm gonna buy from kicking your ass. with the money I get
-What if I kick your ass? -Then you can buy me the beach house.
Best view in Bangkok. Have a seat.
You hungry?
So, are you a fight promoter or a chef?
Sushi requires precision.
It helps me to focus, which helps me to relax.
Are you calm and focused, Mr. Baylor?
Because, given your history,
Because, given your history, killing your best friend would destroy most men.
Bury them in guilt and regret.
Man might even try to get himself killed in the ring
as some sort of sad, pathetic penance.
You that kind of a man, Mr. Baylor?
I want one million.
No bullshit gate percentages, no win bonuses
and I want the cash up front.
You like to win, Mr. Baylor?
WES: Sure. Don't you?
Abso-fucking-lutely.
Welcome to the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, Mr. Baylor.
General.
[chuckles] Good to see you.
The Republic of the Union of Myanmar gratefully accepts your donations.
No words. We're just here to help the people.
[chuckles] Come and meet the gang.
Señor Esparto, Spain's most celebrated bullfighter.
Killed as much meat as a slaughterhouse.
It will be an honor to see you in the arena, Mr. Baylor.
-The Zimlings -Hmm. from Texas.
Jacob and his son, Tobias.
Here for some father-son bonding.
You're lucky, kid. My dad only took me to Chuck E. Cheese.
Holy shit!
You're Wes Baylor. "The Executioner."
Sorry, my ring name was "The Jailor."
[laughs] Not after that last fight.
My boy and I were there. Fuckin' A, let me shake your hand.
[laughing] We're big fans.
Like I promised, Mr. Zimling. Only the best.
Miss Sofia, heir to the third-richest oil baron in the world,
taking Daddy's lifelong hobby of big game hunting to the next level.
Bit of a sore subject.
They tell me you like punishment.
Sorry, ma'am. You're not my type.
That's bullshit.
I'm everyone's type.
Landon Marshall.
You probably recognize the face from Wired magazine.
They called me the Mark Zuckerberg of the first-person shooter.
I've never heard of you.
ALDRICH: Where's Maduka? Never heard of you either, bro.
ALDRICH: Where's Maduka? Never heard of you either, bro. -Probably sleeping off  -Very well. Let's begin. last night.
-Probably sleeping off  -Very well. Let's begin. last night.
Begin what? What exactly is, uh, going on here?
Where's the ring?
Where's, uh-- Where's the opponent?
Where's, uh-- Where's the opponent? Your opponents you've met, and the ring, well, you're standing in it.
and the ring, well, you're standing in it.
A hundred square miles of jungle.
The purse?
A million dollars' worth of rubies.
You get across the border, they're yours.
Thailand's that way, [zipper unzipping] due east.
What is this? Some sort of a joke?
Is there a hidden camera around here, or--
You signed up for a no-holds-barred contest,
You signed up for a no-holds-barred contest, and that's what you're going to get.
That's what you're all going to get.
Time to find out where you are on the food chain.
Choose your weapon.
JACOB: Hey! [laughs]
I recommend the crossbow, for the real hunter.
ALDRICH: And don't worry. Hey. [chuckles]
Change your mind later, there'll be plenty of time. They'll be following us.
ALDRICH: It's all yours.
MADDEN: Yes, sir.
A little demonstration of what lies ahead.
That is just a start.
ALDRICH: You're facing the ultimate challenge.
Hunting... your equal on the evolutionary scale.
You rise to this challenge,
you'll reach the pinnacle of satisfaction as a hunter.
Can I get a "fuck yeah"?
HUNTERS: Fuck yeah! [cackles]
Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Baylor. No weapon for you.
Madden's right.
But I will give you this.
A two-minute head start. [beeps]
And... a water bottle.
when you can. Fill it [gasps]
What the hell is wrong with you people?
This isn't a fight. That's murder.
MADDEN: No, it's a hunt.
It's fucking insane.
Ninety seconds.
This is bullshit, Aldrich. I didn't sign up for this shit.
Find yourself another piece of meat. I'm outta here.
ALDRICH: You're right about that.
One way or the other, you are outta here. It's up to you to choose.
Course there is. Not a lot of choice here.
You can win...
or you can lose.
Oh. Seventy seconds.
What's the matter? You need me to ring the bell?
Ding, ding.
This will be a good hunt.
Mr. Maduka. So glad you could make it.
Chief Lord Maduka.
ALDRICH: My apologies. Chief Lord.
But... cameras, cell phones, any recording devices.
MADDEN: You know the rules.
[sighs] No calls? Just a few snaps? Take a mental picture, Mr. Marshall.
You're about to join a very exclusive club.
We don't just share this with anyone.
Besides, what you're about to experience can't be captured on camera.
You're gonna let it live in here forever.
Jesus, ladies. SOFIA: [chuckles]
JACOB: Let's go. You wanna fuck or hunt?
ALDRICH: Get him!
Damn. You are in great shape.
You cross-fit? [panting] Spinning?
Krav Maga? That's my jam.
Excuse me while I get my heart rate up. [grunts]
ESPARTO: Bueno. Ay. [panting] getting to you, kid? The pressure
Why don't you shut the fuck up, old man.
Hundred miles due east, huh?
Fuck you, Aldrich. North border's only 40.
ALDRICH: He's run flat out for a mile, knows we're right behind him.
Probably doesn't like his chances out in the open.
Try to get in his head.
[chuckles] Clever lad.
Maduka. Who's missing? MADDEN:
Shit.
Fuck!
Get up! Oh, no! Please stop! No! Please, please!
Please stop! No! Please, please!
Seriously?
Do you like my little toy, huh?
I make it special for monkeys like you. [grunts]
When we step into the arena,
we don't always step out.
Not so noble now, Chief Lord.
[retches] hard targets for a reason. ALDRICH: They're called
Jesus.
For the first time you're hunting something as smart as you are.
[chuckles] Doubt that. ALDRICH: Baylor won't be an easy kill.
As it should be.
Lady and gentlemen, all bets are off.
From now on, watch your backs.
And I guarantee one of you
will be wearing his balls for breakfast by sundown.
Wipe your goddamn mouth.
This way.
Stay alert. He's close.
Shit!
ALDRICH: Target's in sight!
ALDRICH: We have the high ground!
ALDRICH: Man has hunted every species on the planet.
What makes you better than him, huh?
ALDRICH: It is time to find out!
JACOB: Fuck this bow-and-arrow shit!
Like shootin' fish in a barrel, Baylor!
Try this.
Oh! Now you're talkin'.
It's Christmas!
Come on. Let's go. Let's go. Fuck.
You want to fight these elephants?
He threw the first punch.
You fell in their bath and scared them.
I saw the whole thing.
You working for Aldrich?
Who's Aldrich?
[panting] Forget about it.
Shit!
You see a watch around here anywhere?
Here you go.
Thanks.
What are you doing out here?
Some people are hunting me.
My brother was being hunted too. Win.
Have you seen him?
No.
I'm sorry.
I have to get to the border.
The border's not that way.
Just follow me.
JACOB: Baylor is good. I'll give him that.
JACOB: Baylor is good. I'll give him that. TOBIAS: Yeah. Maybe too good.
TOBIAS: Yeah. Maybe too good.
LANDON: Hey, perhaps we can take a short break. Huh?
SOFIA: Fuck that. I'll kill him myself.
ALDRICH: I realize you didn't pay good money
to run a jungle 5K.
ALDRICH: You're here to hunt.
But even good hunters need their trusted steeds!
JACOB [laughing]: Hey, hey, hey, hey.
Now you're talkin'.
Come on. [Jacob laughs]
How do you know where we're going?
Everything looks the same to me.
My brother and I grew up here.
That's how we got involved in all of this.
Got involved in what?
They told him he was doing a drug run.
Then he disappeared.
When someone in our village disappears, we know they're being used in a game.
WOMAN: So how are you here?
I'm a fighter.
They told me there was gonna be a fight.
Fight turned out to be a hunt.
My brother's a good fighter too.
He fights for me and our village.
Well, the best fighters
always have something to fight for.
What is your something?
I love it when they take the temple route.
-MADDEN: Where did he -ALDRICH: I don't know. pick up the girl?
Let's see if we can charge extra for her.
ALDRICH: Tell the gang there's another target.
Which way now?
Through the old temple grounds, over there.
Then follow the train tracks and the river for a long time
-before we reach the border. -Okay.
Train tracks, river, all the way to the border.
Thank you. Sorry, I-- I didn't get your name.
-Tha, I'm Wes. -Tha.
All right, cool. Thank you.
Thank you very much for your help and good luck finding your brother.
I'm gonna make my own way now.
Tha, listen. Your life is gonna be a lot safer without me in it. Trust me.
I'll lead them away. Hide!
I saw the girl. We'll have to go on foot to get her.
Hey. I love this. [chuckles]
You think it's a good idea to leave the bike?
Sh-Shit. Dad!
I can smell her. [laughing]
[grunts] What are you doing? I saw someone.
There's no one there. -[panting] Yeah. -You fuckin' clown.
-[panting] Yeah. -You fuckin' clown.
Ow. You think I'm crazy? -I hate the fucking jungle. -She's up ahead.
-I hate the fucking jungle. -She's up ahead.
Little bitch.
Won't be needin' that anymore.
You like the rough stuff, do ya? So do I.
Trouble is, you can never get enough of it.
I don't want anything to do with this.
-[Tha gasping] -Tobias. Tobias! Where the hell are you going?
Tobias! Where the hell are you going?
Get back here, you pussy! Tobias!
JACOB: Tobias! [Tha grunts]
-[Tha shrieks] -Tobias!
What the hell is wrong with you, lady?
There are infinite privileges and side effects to being the only child of one of the greatest assholes
of one of the greatest assholes in the history of big game hunting.
All the time and resources to train your mind and body for combat.
I just hope that the day might come where I get to hunt the hunter.
So that's what this is about. Daddy issues, huh?
Why don't you just get yourself a sparring partner?
[spits] Because it doesn't count unless the hunt is real.
Is that real enough for ya?
Not good. Fuck!
Not good, not good. Not good.
Tha!
-[shouting] -Tha!
-[panting] -Tha!
He's dead.
Come on. Let's go.
Come on.
Karma's a bitch.
[panting] Cover him.
This is not good for business.
ESPARTO: He's awake. He's awake.
ESPARTO: He's awake. He's awake. TOBIAS: Oh, no.
-What happened? -I don't know.
The woman. She did this.
You let a girl do this to your father?
-How could you, huh? -[grunts]
Your father spent a small fortune so you could grow some balls, and that's what you're gonna do, right here, right now.
so you could grow some balls, and that's what you're gonna do, right here, right now.
-You want to kill these people. -No, I don't want to kill anyone.
-I want to kill them. -Say it.
-I want to kill them. -Say it. -Louder. Louder! -I want to kill--
-I want to kill them! -Like you mean it!
I want to kill them.
That's good.
Hey, uh, maybe-- maybe we should head back, huh?
SOFIA: That's right.
Why don't you run home to Mommy.
We came here chasing death.
We should not be surprised if we find it.
You're wrong, sir.
We did not come here to chase death.
We came to deal it.
We gotta keep moving.
I didn't want to kill him.
You didn't have a choice.
No. We always have a choice.
Look. You got two choices, all right?
Either you fight,
or you stay here and you die.
What's it gonna be?
Good choice. Aaah! [winces]
You're hurt.
-Yeah, with what? Let's go. -That needs to be treated.
I know a place.
Ah, shit.
Show me your wound.
What are you going to do with your money?
I'm gonna buy a big house by the sea.
-I'm trying to buy a -Yeah? whole village.
Did everybody leave?
The soldiers told us they needed the land.
But one of the soldiers was from a nearby village.
Told us that hunters had paid the general to clear out this entire area.
So they moved us to a border town. It's awful there.
So they moved us to a border town. It's awful there. No way to make offerings to the forest spirit.
No way to make offerings to the forest spirit.
So she's become very hungry.
And very angry.
Now that Y'wa is fed, we will suffer no more.
She'll return my brother and village to me.
Come.
Show some respect.
ALDRICH: You got a position yet?
Two clicks over that ridge.
-Good. Get the kids. -Team!
Okay, great. So, what, we follow the road now?
No, we go through this field. See?
No, we go through this field. See? Down the river, and further down is the bridge to the border.
Down the river, and further down is the bridge to the border.
Come on. Let's go.
-What's that smell? -What?
Smells like gasoline.
Land mines.
-What? -Don't move!
WES: Shit.
Grab a drink if you need one.
Get down. They're here already?
Get back there.
Come on.
That's right. Come on in, you bastards.
There!
Ah, here we go.
Stop! Everybody freeze!
You've cornered your prey.
He's in a minefield, stuck, nowhere to go.
Checkmate.
All that remains is target practice. Break out the M16s.
-No, no, no! Tobias, wait! -Die, motherfucker!
[gunfire] Wait!
Fuck!
Goddamn it! Somebody kill this prick!
Do you wanna die?
Get out of here. Leave me alone. Run.
Pretty soon, they're gonna find me, all right?
And when they do, you shouldn't be here.
Now go!
I'm not leaving.
I know a good hiding place.
Did you hear that? [coughing] THA: Wait.
-Someone else is here. -[groaning]
[groans] THA: Win?
-Win! [laughs] -Tha. Tha.
Who are you?
-What are you doing with him? -It's okay.
-He's one of them! -Take it easy, man. Take it easy.
I'm not one of them. I'm in the same position you are.
I'm not one of them. I'm in the same position you are. It's okay. Trust me. We-- We can trust him.
It's okay. Trust me. We-- We can trust him. Okay?
Those guys are hunting me as well.
Just trust me. It's okay.
It's okay.
MADDEN: This way.
Tracks lead down here.
What's wrong?
-I've lost the tracks. -I lost the signal.
Fuck.
I'll handle this.
Let's make camp here, everyone.
Why do you care so much about that watch?
A friend gave it to me.
Reminds me of something.
Something good?
Not really.
Here. Let me take a look.
Tomorrow, we cross the border.
Then what?
Then I'll leave you.
That's what you want, right?
You should get some sleep.
Good night, Tha.
Kind of burnt.
SOFIA: What is this, fucking summer camp?
So, Aldrich,
how'd you get into this business, if you don't mind me asking?
CIA didn't have, uh, much appreciation for my talents.
Said I was too theatrical.
Can you believe that? -[chuckles] -[chuckles]
So I came up with my own business.
Hunting with a twist.
Turned into international success.
The general was escorting rebels in the Yangon prison.
I suggest he help us hunt.
And he bites.
I mean,
prisoners are gonna die anyway, right?
So why not have some fun?
They let them loose in the jungle. We acted as trackers, grew the business from there.
We acted as trackers, grew the business from there.
So the money's good?
MADDEN: Yeah.
Killing's better.
Didn't get your fill in the military, huh?
I was never in the service.
Didn't make the psych evaluation.
I was too crazy. Pussies thought
Well, they weren't wrong.
No. No, no. No. Jonny.
No. Jonny.
[panting] Jonny! No!
Wes! Jonny!
-[grunts] -Be quiet.
Who's Jonny?
Jonny was my best friend.
We were both in line for a shot at the title.
They wanted us to fight each other.
Offered us more money than we'd ever known, so...
we did.
I wanted to win.
And I didn't wanna leave it in the hands of the judges, so...
I went for the knockout.
I hit him so hard, he never woke up.
It was an accident.
You didn't mean for it to happen.
But it still happened.
Tha?
Oh, shit.
ALDRICH: Nice to see you again, Win.
How appropriate we caught you both at this particular place.
The Japanese killed nearly a hundred thousand workers building this railroad.
Starvation.
Exhaustion.
Dysentery.
Plenty of them got beaten to death.
Where's Wes Baylor?
I killed him. For the rubies.
ALDRICH: You killed him?
-[groans] -No, he was asleep.
I don't buy it.
THA [in distance]: Please!
Please. ALDRICH: Again.
THA: No!
Please!
Help!
Shut up. Shut up.
I didn't kill anybody.
I'm just a shitty video game designer. Please don't kill me.
ALDRICH [on recording]: The Japanese killed nearly a hundred thousand workers building this railroad.
Starvation.
Exhaustion.
-Move. -Yeah.
I saw a Burmese soldier do this.
Just a length of bamboo.
Took him only four shots to get clean through the neck.
I don't think you'll last two. THA: Don't! Stop!
Don't do it! [panting]
-Stop it! -Where's Baylor?
THA: Please! -Stop it! -Where's Baylor?
-Stop it! -Where's Baylor? No! Please!
WES: Aldrich!
Let 'em go.
ALDRICH: What do you care about them? They took your payday.
-Yeah, I'm taking it back. -[rifle cocks] Cut 'em loose.
Cut 'em loose and back up, or I'll blow his fuckin' head off!
Let me take him. ALDRICH: No. You might kill Marshall.
ALDRICH: No. You might kill Marshall. So what?
It's bad enough for business losing clients to Baylor.
It'd be a fucking catastrophe if we start shooting them ourselves.
Cut 'em loose.
Give her the rubies.
-Wes. -Save it. Get behind me.
ALDRICH: Now what, Baylor?
Got you backed into a corner. You got nowhere to go.
Come on, dude. Game over. Please, just let me go.
-You and Win, run. Go. -No.
I'll hold 'em off, and then-- then I'll jump.
THA: All right. WES: Go.
Move.
SOFIA: Where's Baylor?
-I got this. -Sorry.
Meet me at the river.
I will never tell you.
Oh, I think you will.
WIN: Wes, over here!
Win!
Not good.
This guy is-- [chuckles]
THA: Sorry about before.
Don't do that again. It's crazy.
The rubies.
I found Sofia.
Coño. Fuck.
At least we know where they're going.
ALDRICH: They're called hard targets for a reason.
First time you're hunting something as smart as you are.
Baylor won't be a--
I don't blame you for being angry.
When I save your ass, you rob me blind?
-We had no choice. -Oh, we always have a choice.
The rubies aren't for me. They're for my village.
If I pay the general, he'll let us return home.
They'll stop hunting us.
That's why I took the rubies.
How am I supposed to know you're telling the truth?
-You can't. -[chuckles]
But you can choose to.
You get me to the border, we'll call it quits.
LANDON: Look, man, I'm not even a hunter. I'm a gamer.
Just give me back my phone.
have someone pick me up. I'll call my assistant,
[clears throat] The memory card's missing.
Where did this come from?
I have no idea. It must be that woman or something.
Really?
A poor villager in bamboo flip-flops can afford a thousand-dollar Minicam?
I told you, Mr. Marshall,
no phones, no cameras,
-no recording devices. -Yeah.
-We cleared that up, remember? -Hmm.
Like you said, I'm gonna carry it here, in my heart, and my heart is full of the--
-I didn't film anything. -What did you film?
No! Stop! Okay, look.
It was a few POV shots. First-person shooter stuff.
Of us?
You filmed us?
I was stuck on my new game.
The pressure to deliver is fucking insane.
And the critics? Man, 13-year-olds are harsh.
I just-- I needed some new inspiration.
Look, I know I screwed up. I'm really sorry.
Do you understand the concept of a verbal contract?
-We can get that card back. -[chuckles] You guys are badasses.
It's-- It's binding.
And actionable.
Congratulations, Señor Esparto.
You're our last hunter.
Let's bag that target. Signal's back.
Let's see where they are.
They're almost at the border.
Wait. You had this all along?
You're tracking with this?
[speaking Spanish] You have no honor.
Oh, give me a break.
Trying to contain a situation, you dumb, spic bastard.
Easy, amigo.
Back off.
Did something get lost in translation?
Mr. Marshall brought in a recording device.
Baylor's got the footage-- footage that might not sit too well
Baylor's got the footage-- footage that might not sit too well with your fans back home or Interpol.
So do you want honor, or do you want Baylor?
Nobody calls me a spic.
I'm a dago.
Hasta la muerte.
We can't let Baylor get to the border. Call in the cleanup crew.
Call in the cleanup crew.
-You think we need them? -Call them!
Shit. We can't pass here. Follow me.
Shit. We can't pass here. Follow me. Ready? Come on.
[vehicle approaching] Stay low.
How the hell did they find us again?
Wait a minute.
They lost us when we went into that cave, right?
And they found you two when you went outside...
with the rubies.
We never even had a chance then.
We don't.
But you do.
I'm gonna hang on to this.
ALDRICH: GPS says he's around here somewhere.
You two get to the border.
-You make him pay. -Why would you do this for us?
I guess I finally found what I'm fighting for.
Go.
Go on.
They've got to be here.
What the fuck? Get him!
ALDRICH: Stop him! He cannot reach the border!
ALDRICH: Stop him! He cannot reach the border! No, no, no, no. I got you.
Take him out right now. You hear what I'm saying?
General wants to talk to you.
-[shouts in Burmese] -[men shouting]
-Guess you want me -No. Something better. to call for a boat.
I see you, yes. I'm coming for you.
I can see the look in your eyes.
You remind me of a famous Navarre bull-- Murciélago.
He survived 24 strikes of my lance.
Come on.
Come on!
Win!
Still on the move.
Keep on your right.
Bring it around again!
He fought with such spirit
that the crowd called for his life to be spared.
But sadly for you-- -[groans] -there is no crowd here today.
-Vayas con Dios. -THA: No!
He's almost at the border. I don't think we can get him in time.
It's a long walk to the other side. Anything can happen.
Let the troops know.
Stop him from getting to the Thai side.
I ain't no bull.
-[groans] -You son of a bitch.
Wes.
Keep him on the right.
On the right. Don't lose his ass.
Get us on that bridge.
Fuck you, Aldrich. I win.
Baylor!
Wrong side of the bridge. Tough break.
Guess you'll have to come through me.
We'd like to invite you to join us for a party in your honor.
No regrets, please.
Shit.
This was meant for you.
Come on.
Come on.
Aldrich! Let him go!
And if I don't? They're called hard targets for a reason.
You know what? You look great in HD, Aldrich.
Really captures what a prick you are.
You have something that belongs to me.
False sense of superiority?
Memory card. Where is it?
Oh, that.
Yeah, it's safe.
It's up my ass.
Well, let me help you extract it.
I know you're not that bright, Madden, but, uh, you do realize that wasn't my ass.
but, uh, you do realize that wasn't my ass.
I'm not the man you insult.
I just can't tell what kind of man you are, Baylor.
[chuckles] So I've been crawling, rattling around in my brain,
and then I suddenly realized you are just a nobody.
You're just some savage animal.
I mean, what you did to your best friend,
leaving a son without his father,
his wife a widow.
If it was up to me, I'd go out of my mind. I would just die.
If it was up to me, I'd go out of my mind. I would just die. I wouldn't be able to--
Stop. Stop. That's what he wants. That's exactly what he wants.
Death's just not enough for you, is it?
You want to go out like your friend, like a warrior.
and I'll be happy to oblige. Just give me what I want, [spits]
No more shame. No more guilt.
Unless, of course, you don't have the card.
You gave it to the girl.
Then I'll hunt her down.
But first, you know what?
I think I deserve a little entertainment.
Did you bring the beer?
You know, Baylor,
I am gonna enjoy watching you get your ass kicked.
Thanks.
So I brought five friends.
Let's see how they rip you apart with their bare hands.
One, two, three, four guys and, uh, a little girl?
Not you. Not yet.
You know, you were right about me, Aldrich.
I was a nobody.
No shot at redemption.
Not until you came along.
Hell, son, you're welcome.
Praise Jesus. You're saved.
Fighting spirit's back, huh?
You gave me something to fight for.
Now.
What do you say, Baylor?
Don't pussy out on me now.
Not bad, Baylor. I thought you wouldn't have anything left.
Goddamn, Baylor. You're the man.
It's a shame to have to put you down.
Wes!
Don't do it!
You know how this works, Aldrich.
You get a two-minute head start. Get up.
Get up!
Ninety seconds.
Sixty seconds!
You're gonna have to kill me, Baylor.
'Cause I have friends. [man grunts]
Rich, powerful friends.
You think you can hunt me?
Who the hell do you think you are?
You lose.
General.
Kill that asshole.
Wait!
Wait! Wait!
General. I have the money.
Lower your weapons!
What did you just say? ALDRICH: General.
-It's okay. -General.
General, you dirty motherfucker!
Shoot!
Thank you.
So, you paid the general?
Yes.
Thanks to you, he's letting us get back our lives
and return to our village.
As long as we help him look for the missing rubies.
What missing rubies?
The ones you lost in the jungle.
Oh, you only gave him half?
You're a good man, Wes.
Get that house by the sea.
KAY'S VOICE: I hope you don't blame yourself for what happened.
Fighters fight.
What's important is finding something to fight for.
You asked for my forgiveness,
but I'm afraid I can't give it to you because there is nothing to forgive.
Thank you for what you've done for us.
Love, Kay.
P.S. We're still gonna keep the beach house though.
WES: As I said before, pushing off the back leg,
WES: As I said before, pushing off the back leg, twisting, kicking with the shin.
Twist all the way around.
So remember to twist that hip all the way to the front.
Twist the hip.
I guess it's break time, guys.
The boss says it's break time.
Look for the hummingbird.
[in French] Friends, colleagues,
and those who thought he was a figment of my imagination...
...may I introduce, all the way from Paris
and completely out of the blue,
my wonderful, wonderful husband!
Bonsoir.
[in French] I thought he was stuck in France forever!
[in French] So it is true. You do exist!
[in French] Maurice, how long do we have?
[in French] The company gave me six weeks leave.
Six weeks? That is a lifetime!
[in French] You know, Christine never stops talking about you.
All good things I hope.
All amazing.
Oh hell, now I have to be amazing.
Ladies and gentlemen... I haven't seen my wife in many months.
I know you will forgive me if I take her home...
...we must renew our acquaintance.
I must give you some money.
No. Go, go. We will settle the bill.
You go settle your overdue account with your husband.
Maurice. You have a wonderful wife.
When you're settled, we must all meet.
You can tell us all about phosphate mining.
I look forward to it.
A bientot. -Bonsoir. -Bonsoir. Bonsoir.
Merci.
[in English] Not bad.
[in English] You weren't so bad yourself.
Max Vatan.
Marianne Beauséjour.
I've heard a lot about you around the circuit.
I've heard a lot about you.
Keep going straight. I'll tell you when to turn.
You were in Dieppe for a while?
A husband would offer his wife a cigarette before lighting his own.
Turn right here.
Thank you.
What went wrong in Paris? Your entire circuit was taken out.
I never discuss non-relevant operational information with anyone.
I'll try to stay relevant then.
That would be appreciated.
Do they trust you?
Two months ago, I got promoted to the Embassy Liaison Department.
I deal with the German legation every day.
But do they trust you?
How did it look?
They seemed to like you.
And I like them.
I keep the emotions real.
That's why it works.
-[horn honks] -Don't slow down.
This is how you drive in Casablanca.
[in French] Now that you're here, I can show you off.
We won't be in the apartment much.
I have to go out there and sell you.
We'll have to be careful.
I've told everyone my husband is from Paris.
And?
And...
Your French is good,
but your Parisian accent is terrible.
[in French] I've been working on it for months.
Let's hear it.
That was it.
Oh. So then we're in trouble.
That was pure Quebec.
With French Moroccans you might be okay, but we'll have to be careful in front of real Parisians until the party.
but we'll have to be careful in front of real Parisians until the party.
The party's in ten days. Is my invitation gonna be a problem?
Now that you're here,
I'm going to set up a meeting with Herr Hobar.
And then it's up to you.
Can you stand ten days in this tiny little place,
Le Quebecois?
It's not so bad.
Water's hot, sometimes.
I'll take the couch.
Actually, you'll sleep on the roof.
It's cooler.
And in Casablanca, the roof is where husbands go
after they've made love to their wives.
The neighbors will find it curious
if I don't come to visit you on your first night.
I've told Madam Torgenot and Madam Petit all about you.
They'll be very excited.
They'll guess that the sex is already over.
And it was great, by the way.
Then,
you went to the roof.
I missed you
because I've been sleeping alone so many months.
So I came up to tell you I love you.
You're very thorough.
That's why I'm still alive.
Now we should talk.
And laugh.
Mmm. We're married. Why would we laugh?
Kiss me.
Now talk.
Tell me what you'll do after the war.
I don't know what I'll do after the war.
[whispering] Look.
The lovely Madam Petit in apartment seven.
She's married to a German tank captain.
And she's watching us.
So we should talk. And laugh.
Okay.
After the war, I'm buying a ranch.
With horses.
A ranch!
You mean, like in the movies?
Cowboys? Bang, bang?
Yeah.
Are you just saying this to say something, or is it real?
Mmm, it's real.
It's, uh, a ranch on a prairie
outside a place called Medicine Hat.
Now I know you're joking.
You think you'll ever get there?
Well,
I guess that's not the point of Medicine Hat, huh?
No.
Okay. That wasn't so hard, was it?
Now this is the part where I tell you I love you
and leave you to count the stars,
or whatever it is men do on their rooftops.
Je t'aime. Je t'aime aussi.
Now kiss me again.
Bonne nuit.
You can come in now.
Voila.
You are somewhat formal and reserved.
But you like expensive clothes.
And your shoes are always polished.
I told everyone you're quite a serious Catholic.
At least you can smell like a Parisian.
I'll leave you to choose.
Before I left London,
Guy Sangster asked me to say thank you.
We flew Lizzies together.
You remember Guy? You got him out of Dieppe in '41.
Okay. What did he say about me?
He said you were beautiful.
And good.
Being good at this kind of work is not very beautiful.
You look okay.
Let's go.
[Claude speaking in French] It was a lovely mass...
...good sermon as well.
[in French] Did you get him an invitation to the Ambassador's party yet?
We're working on it.
We're meeting some Government people for dinner next week.
You should come.
Look at his face.
That fake smile.
Maurice isn't very sociable.
We'll do it for the women, yes?
Oui.
[in French] Good. Until next week. -Au revoir. -Au revoir.
Merci.
Bonjour.
You seem to have all Vichy under your spell, Madame Berne.
Turn around and smile, Québécois.
Ca va?
The German officer at ten o'clock. I think I recognize him.
He was attached to the Abwehr. In Marseille.
He interrogated me once.
He hasn't seen you. He's reading his paper.
You're sure that it's him? Oui.
Really sure?
Sixty-percent sure.
[in French] Put me through to the Vichy Commissariat of Police.
Quickly.
Yes... I'll hold.
Okay, cherie.
[Claude speaking in French] Maurice, meet my friend Vincent...
[Claude speaking in French] Maurice, meet my friend Vincent... ...he's also from Paris.
[Marianne speaking in French] My love! I'm bored.
Dance with me.
You're utterly crazy, Madame Berne.
Yes. You could do with being a little crazy yourself.
Well played.
Watch out for him.
A lot of jealous guys giving me the evil eye.
It's because they know I'm in love with you.
It's very obvious.
What went wrong in Paris?
V Section left us hanging out to dry.
How'd you get away?
I ran.
And ran, and kept on running.
[whispers] Madam Petit. Lurking in the window.
Bonsoir.
This Herr Hobar we're meeting tomorrow, what can you tell me about him?
He's the Ambassador's liaison.
A high-ranking Party member from Cologne.
He likes golf and gambling.
He's our final hurdle.
You have two seconds.
Go.
The guns will be taped under the champagne table.
The Ambassador arrives at precisely 8:30.
If he's late?
He's German. He'll be on time.
How come you don't know Stens?
I do know Stens.
I didn't see you set the travel safety.
You'll be okay to use a Sten on the night, though?
I would be okay if I had to use cutlery.
The diversion attack will happen five minutes later at 8:35.
And then everything will be in God's hands.
Good.
Hopefully, he'll know how to work the safety.
It's hot.
What are you doing?
Testing you
the way you tested me.
I know you are armed with a weapon, Mr. Vatan.
I'm just checking your safety catch is engaged.
There.
We had our first fight.
Now we're okay again, yes?
Marianne,
we both know people who've fucked each other.
Then they fucked up, and now they're fucking dead.
Wow, that's a lot of fucks.
Fasten your goddamn buttons.
Actually, Max,
the mistake people make in these situations isn't fucking.
It's feeling.
-[in French] Have you been waiting long? -Non.
[in French] Herr Hobar will see you now.
[Marianne] Oh, merci.
[Max] Non. Oh, my husband's trying to cut down.
He says the war makes everyone smoke too much.
I've only heard good things about him around town.
Good things.
Sit down, please.
Your husband doesn't speak English?
Only a little.
[in French] Your wife has asked if she could bring you to the Ambassador's Ball tomorrow.
Yes, but...
...if it's a problem, I understand.
[in English] He doesn't seem to want to come.
[in English] There is a stupid poker game in the Rue Valence.
[laughing] I see.
[in French] What are you saying about me?
Don't embarrass me. You're coming and that's that.
So, your husband plays poker?
[Marianne] Oh, he's obsessed.
As am I. As am I.
And now we cut. High card wins.
Wins what?
If his card is higher than mine, he can go to his poker game.
If it's lower, he must come to the party.
[laughs] This is too absurd.
[in French] Shuffle, Mr. Berne.
High card wins.
Mining?
Yes.
He works with phosphate, right?
[Marianne] That's right.
[in French] Now cut, Mr. Berne. For your freedom.
Too bad.
No poker for you.
Ah. Uh... [exhales] One more thing. Boring. Procedure.
For new names on the list.
[in French] Mr. Berne...
...write down the chemical formula for phosphate, please.
[in English] See you both tomorrow.
[in English] So, it's in the cards.
We get our chance to make history.
[in English] I couldn't sleep. Mmm.
I won't let you down, Le Quebecois.
[in English] I know.
Let's get out of here. Let's go watch the sunrise.
What are our odds?
Of surviving?
Sixty-forty.
Against.
Both of us, I don't know.
So, tell me about Medicine Hat.
Pretty green. Rolling hills. Clear water.
Just a place I go when things get dark.
You?
You have a place?
When the war is over,
it won't matter where I am.
We should be going.
If we're dead tomorrow,
no one would know.
[in French] You look beautiful.
[in English] The guns?
[in English] Gone.
Bien.
I'm from Ontario.
[Marianne speaking in French] It's 8:32.
Three minutes until the diversion.
In this kind of situation, I find it useful to think about something funny.
Smile or something.
[in French] You look beautiful.
You already told me that.
Can you even see me?
Not really.
-[in French] Ah. You two. -[in French] Good evening.
Good evening. How are you?
Very well, thank you. And you?
Not bad.
So...?
So... It's lovely. [Hobar] Mmm.
Heil Hitler.
[Max speaking in French] He's late.
Move!
No one's following us.
We're alive, Max. We're both alive.
Come with me to London.
Come with me to London and be my wife.
George?
Salute me, Frenchman.
-Go to hell. -This is hell, it's an office.
I heard an unspeakable rumor -about you being in love. -Oh.
Gotta go, George. Buy me a drink later.
Max, you appear to be walking on air. It's revolting!
-Good morning, sir. -Morning.
They said Frank wanted to see me?
Yes, straight away.
Max, please remember you're in the land of "Yes, sir, no, sir."
Don't throw anything or hit anyone.
Got it.
He's ready to see you.
Frank.
They said you had news.
Yes, yes, I have news, Wing Commander,
regarding Marianne Beauséjour.
It's been three fucking weeks.
"Sir."
"It's been three fucking weeks, sir."
It's been three fucking weeks, sir.
After a thorough vetting procedure carried out by V Section in Gibraltar,
Marianne Beauséjour
has been approved for passage to England.
That'll be all, Wing Commander.
Max.
You're a bloody fool.
Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
Marriages made in the field never work.
You're absolutely right, sir.
You're invited to the wedding, by the way.
[wedding guest] Bravo!
[George] Careful, careful, Max! Hold on.
Here we go. Come on.
That's it.
Come on in, darlings.
[George] Don't ask me why that's true.
What the hell have we here?
You know, here's a fun fact. Only thing in London not rationed,
champagne!
Champagne and sex.
Oh, my God, Max, your sister is obsessed!
Yes. Isn't it wonderful?
To my formerly permafrosted brother,
thawed at last by love.
Mmm, that's rather poetic.
Oh, for goodness' sake!
[Bridget] Honestly, I'll miss the Blitz.
I will. No one cares who does what to who.
So we should be drinking to war. And freedom.
-[Margaret] To war! -[George] To freedom.
Marianne, I would offer you my congratulations,
but I've known Max a long time.
I'll just wish you good luck.
[Bridget] Mmm, no, no, no.
Now my brother is just an ordinary man flying a desk
in some boring office.
Oh, oh, a talented boy like Max
won't be behind a desk with Frank for long.
Our spooky friends from V Section,
they will come calling just when you least expect it.
You entirely okay, Madame Vatan?
Entirely.
[midwife] Breathe, breathe, breathe.
[Max] Get up! Get outside!
[midwife] Hang on! Get her out. Quickly.
Quickly.
I need that trolley. Help me.
-Get this up now. Come on. -[crying]
Get her on it. Away from the wall.
Come on. Come on.
Help me, someone! Come and help me!
That's it. I need some help!
Get me some light over here now!
Very close.
Good girl. Good girl.
Pant for me. Good girl.
This is really me, as I am before God.
[midwife] It's a girl.
[in French] Anna... It's you.
There. A celebration.
-For what? -Your first weekend off in 57 days.
I counted.
Are the eggs from the hens? From our hens.
Ah, so they were a good investment, hmm?
Weren't they?
Max,
let's go to the heath and pick mushrooms.
Tomorrow I want to serve stroganoff at the party.
What party?
Oh, darling, I've got lots of new friends who are dying to meet you.
You'll like them.
They're refugees. Intellectuals. Bohemians.
Hampstead is full of interesting people.
[Max] Hello.
Hello.
Poor Max.
In Casablanca, we pretended you hated parties,
and voila, it's true!
[Max] What's the new nanny's name again?
-[Marianne] Miss Sinclair. -Miss Sinclair.
-[Max] Hello, Miss Sinclair. -[Marianne] Hello.
Max has three days off. Isn't that great?
She just woke up.
[Marianne] We won't be long. We're just gonna pick some mushrooms.
Oh, take your time.
It's always my pleasure.
-Okay. -[Max] Bye-bye.
[Marianne chuckles] I have to go and get Anna.
Just once, you can ignore it. Just once.
Hampstead 235.
Sure. 1500. I'll be there.
When will you be back?
You know I don't know.
What the hell is it that's so important?
Liberating your country.
Then you must go.
Good morning, Margaret.
-Good afternoon, sir. -Afternoon.
George is in your office.
I thought you said to meet you in the mess.
Uh, I lied.
[stutters] It isn't me you're here to see.
-Oh, do you... -No.
No, um, V Section want to speak to you.
Well, why didn't they call me?
Because V Section, they never say what they mean
and they never mean what they say.
And they never say anything on the phone.
I told you they'd come for you eventually, didn't I, Max?
Such a clever boy. [chuckles]
Well, I suppose I ought to congratulate you on your promotion.
Since you seem to know so much, what is the position?
Oh, it goes way, way above my level of security, old man.
I'm just the messenger boy.
-Wing Commander. -Frank.
Have a seat.
We haven't been introduced.
Okay, Frank, whatever the job is, I don't want it.
I'm perfectly happy to stay with you.
Max,
I'm afraid this really isn't what you think it is.
And, well,
there's no easy way to say what we're about to say.
We believe your wife is a German spy.
Okay, wait. Wait.
Seriously, Frank, who is this?
I'm a rat catcher.
I also outrank you, so you can call me "sir."
You have to listen to him, Max.
He outranks both of us.
Over the past seven days,
V Section has intercepted coded messages
being sent from London to Berlin on a WT transceiver.
We haven't traced the signal to an address yet,
but it's coming from the Highgate region of North London,
and the information
concerns the activities of SOE circuits in France.
In one transcript, the agent refers to his source as,
"Fraulein." So it's a woman.
Okay, okay, Frank, can we speak alone for a moment?
Wing Commander Vatan,
do you ever speak to your wife about your work?
Okay.
Uh, sir, before this thing gets out of hand,
may I speak? Hmm?
May I speak?
-[Frank] Yes. -Yes?
My wife is Marianne Beauséjour.
Marianne Beauséjour ran the most effective resistance circuit in Paris
until V Section fucked it up for her in '41.
We met in Casablanca,
where together we assassinated the German Ambassador.
She's the mother of my child. She gave birth to my child, for Chrissake.
She gave birth to my child, for Chrissake.
This is a translated transcript of an interrogation
of a German Abwehr officer captured in Tobruk.
Amongst many other things, he claims that Marianne Beauséjour
was arrested and executed in May 1941
when the rest of her circuit was captured in Paris.
Marianne Beauséjour's identity
was then given to a German agent of similar build and coloring.
She was flown to Casablanca, where no one knew the real Marianne.
And it was subsequently discovered that the German Ambassador
who you assassinated in Casablanca was a dissident.
Hitler wanted him killed.
This is insane.
All the information in the intercepted communications
had crossed your desk.
Yes, everything crosses my fucking desk.
Max, this is now an operational mission.
If Marianne is indeed a German spy...
-My wife is not a spy! -[Frank] If she is,
we need to keep her in place for 72 hours
so that we can identify her handler and clean out the rest of her circuit.
No.
Now we've got that out of the way, perhaps we could discuss
the operational details of the next 72 hours?
So, this is gonna be a standard "blue-dye" procedure, -blue dye being-- -I know what a "blue-dye" is.
-blue dye being-- -I know what a "blue-dye" is.
Tonight,
you will receive a telephone call at exactly 23:07.
Repeat the time, Wing Commander.
23:07, sir.
You will take the call and you will write down a message
somewhere your wife can read it.
It'll be false information, only you will have it.
But it'll appear to be of a high grade, so she will have to pass it on quickly.
By midday on Monday,
our agents will have decoded enemy traffic from the weekend.
So if the false information is among the batches sent from London,
we shall know for sure.
If you are right, Max,
the information won't appear on the transcripts,
and all this will be forgotten.
But if it is proven that your wife is a spy,
routine procedures in cases of intimate betrayal
will apply.
You will execute her with your own hand,
and if we discover that you are an accomplice in any way,
you will be hanged for high treason.
Wing Commander Vatan, do you understand?
He needs to confirm that he understands
routine procedures in--
He understands the procedure, damn it.
Good.
[Frank] Max, it is vital you do nothing differently.
You are not to investigate or take matters into your own hands,
do you understand?
Sir, I, uh...
I apologize for behaving unprofessionally just then.
But I know for a fact you'll be proven wrong.
Now, Wing Commander, you will go home and carry on as if nothing's happened.
You're dismissed.
You were ages.
You know how it is.
Once you get in, you can't get out.
A young pilot needed a pep talk.
Then I got dragged into a briefing.
Hey.
What happened to my kiss?
How's the princess?
Sleeping.
Well, the big news is I definitely have the weekend off.
Until the phone rings.
Nope.
Definitely free the whole weekend.
So...
The party is on.
Yeah, the party's on.
We'll need to get some drinks for tomorrow night. Mmm-hmm.
I'll pick some up in the morning.
It's like they're watching us.
Honey... Honey, give me my arm.
Honey, give me my arm. Give me my arm.
Hampstead 235.
Wing Commander Vatan.
-Honey, do you have a pen? -No.
Mmm-hmm. Go ahead.
Yeah.
Yeah, I got it. I'll dispatch it in the morning.
Don't think I'm going to let you sleep, Mr. Vatan.
[Marianne] I keep the emotions real.
That's why it works.
[Marianne] Come back to bed.
It'll be okay.
It'll be okay, because it's not true.
Honey,
you're in uniform.
Yeah, I'm gonna pop by the base and pick up some whiskey.
There's 50 cases of the good stuff stashed in the diplomatic hangar.
They won't miss a few.
Why not just go to the shop?
Nothing but the best for your intellectuals.
I'll meet you at the pub after and we'll pick up the beer.
Of course.
-Hi. -Max.
What the hell brings you here?
I just dropped by to invite you both to a party tonight.
Why didn't you just phone?
Max, you look like you did
the day that you burned the barn down.
Marianne's cooking. Why don't you come by?
Oh, actually, Max, tonight might not be possible.
Max! Max, I heard that you were in V Section.
If they're offering you some kind of suicide mission,
you can say no to them, you know that.
You hardly have anything on.
What's happened, Max?
They're running a blue-dye on Marianne.
Oh, my God.
But it isn't true.
And I will prove it.
I'd like you there tonight.
Excuse me. Where can I find Group Captain Guy Sangster?
He's in the chapel, sir.
Hello, Guy.
[Guy] Wing Commander Vatan.
What do you want from me, Max?
I'm finished. You people just threw me away.
I need your help.
-I have a question. -Yeah?
Tough.
I'm trusting you to tell no one about this.
Fuck you!
I've been left here to fucking rot, Max!
You told me you were smuggled out of France by Marianne Beauséjour.
Dieppe, 1941.
Is this her?
Why are you asking me about your wife?
Guy, please, is this her?
Oh, they didn't tell you.
Max.
My right eye has been shot out
and my left retina is detached.
All I can see is...
a white shape.
Fuck.
Well, you know, Max, if you hadn't sent me into a strip
covered in fucking German AAA!
My own son screamed when he saw me.
I'm sorry, Guy.
Max?
Delamare.
Delamare is still operational in Dieppe.
Hampstead 235.
Hi, honey, I'm at the strip.
They're asking people to give blood after the raid,
so I'm gonna be another hour.
So meet you at the pub after?
[Marianne] Yes, I'll ask Mrs. Sinclair to look after Anna.
-Okay, I love you. I'll see you there. -Love you.
-[man] Squadron! -Corporal.
Put two cases of scotch from the officers' crate in my car.
-Keep a bottle for yourself. -Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
-Who's flying Dieppe tonight? -[Fletcher] Hunter, sir.
-Where can I find him? -Try the shithouse, sir.
At ease.
Sorry, sir.
Something I've eaten.
These'll settle your stomach.
I'm going to save the amphetamines until takeoff.
Then barbiturates when I get back.
If I get back.
[Max] There's an operative in Dieppe.
His name is Paul Delamare. Do you know him?
No. This is my first time.
First time to Dieppe?
First time behind enemy lines ever, sir.
Paul Delamare runs the landing sites.
You can't miss him, he only has one arm.
He's usually had a few, but he's okay.
I want you to give him this.
Give it only to him, only to the man with one arm.
Tell him you need an answer.
A simple oui or non. Only that. IS THIS MARIANNE BEAUSÉJOUR?
Yes, sir.
Wait for my call in the telegraph office.
I'll call you at midnight.
This is classified.
No one must know, you understand?
Yes, sir.
It's very important.
You can count on me, sir.
The fields in Dieppe are lined with poplar trees.
They're invisible if there's no moon,
so climb quickly. I know. I've been briefed.
Good.
Who are you thinking about?
My mother.
Don't.
Think about your father.
He's proud of you.
Yes, sir.
-Oh. -Sorry. Go ahead.
Thank you.
Hi, Billy. Two brandies.
Sorry.
I've ordered three crates of bitter.
Hazel, filthy pipe smoke.
Thank you.
Did you get the whiskey?
I did. Churchill's own.
A husband would offer his wife a cigarette before lighting his own.
You did give blood!
Good.
I thought perhaps you were with your mistress.
It would explain why you were different with me last night.
Different?
In bed.
It felt different.
Good.
Excuse me!
Me and my mates would really love to see you two ladies kiss each other.
[soldier] I don't believe it!
[soldier] That was crazy!
Max, this is splendid.
Marianne! Mari--
Wonderful party! Brilliant!
Getting enough to drink?
Very funny, old man.
Hey, excuse me. We have a garden for that.
Take it outside, please.
Okay. You two, outside. Outside.
[Marianne] My people are behaving so badly.
I thought they would eat something, not just drink and have sex.
Half of them I don't even know. I think word spread around Hampstead.
Would you go check no one is actually fucking in Anna's room?
Sure.
-Max! Max, Max. -[shushing]
[whispers] Sorry.
Listen. [stammers] I've been...
I've been briefed that you're operational, but I haven't been told why you're operational.
but I haven't been told why you're operational.
Now, look, I thought as a friend
I ought to just, um, give you a word of warning.
If the job V Section are offering you is the one everyone's talking about...
Max, if they want you to run the resistance in France on D-Day,
you should know they wouldn't just call you in for a job interview.
They would test you somehow.
Test?
How?
Way, way above my security clearance, old man. But just...
if I were you, I'd tell them to stick their job.
[Max] Careful, Margaret.
Max.
I was able to make it after all.
Frank! I didn't expect you.
Please introduce a little sobriety to the affair.
But I wasn't planning on doing anything of the sort.
A large whiskey and soda, if you please.
Would you get it, honey? Frank still has his work face on.
You keep chickens, don't you?
Frank, you know too much.
Show me your chickens, Max.
You willfully and blatantly disobeyed orders.
First you visit Guy Sangster and burst half his bloody stitches, then--
Frank, if it was your wife, would you trust V Section?
Adam Hunter's Lysander was shot to pieces three hours ago.
On the ground. With him in it!
He's dead!
Because he stayed too long waiting for an answer
to a question from a drunk.
Frank, tell me.
-Is this a game? -A game?
A game.
A test.
I was just saying to Max
that he's taken to office life like a duck to water.
I wouldn't know.
I hardly see him.
Come on, honey, let's dance.
Frank brought you bad news?
Another boy dead.
Something more than that, I think.
I asked Bridget if there was something wrong with you,
and she said you were fine.
But she's not trained to lie like you and me.
We've had a setback. I can't talk about it.
[woman] I think something's burning in the oven!
It could be the stroganoff.
Stand down, Flight Lieutenant.
-Margaret? -Sir.
Is the Dieppe drop still on tomorrow?
I believe it is, sir.
-Forecast? -Clear skies, sir.
Hey.
The man with the pipe. Who is he?
Oh, his name is Lombard.
He has a jewelry shop on the high street.
He was trying to sell me a diamond broach.
But I told him we're broke.
Hey, where are you going?
-Max! -[Jeffrey] Marianne.
-I really need to speak to you. -Oh. Jeffrey, you're too drunk.
Hey.
Ah, your wife changed her mind.
You mean about the earrings.
No, no, no, I was trying to sell her a broach.
I do have some beautiful earrings. I can offer you a very good price.
[Marianne] Max.
It's okay, Mr. Lombard. We really are broke.
Good night.
Good night.
I'll have to get Anna.
[officer] I didn't hear a siren. Where were the sirens?
[George] Now they sound the alarm.
Bloody ARP, always two steps behind.
[Frank] Get these bloody lights off!
They're targeting the East End again.
We should be all right here.
Max, no more.
Please?
By Monday morning, we'll...
We'll know for sure.
Try and get some rest.
-Frank? -It's not a game.
Even if it is,
V Section wouldn't tell you.
Would they?
They wouldn't tell you, Frank.
[soldier] Look!
We got one! Yes!
[soldier] It's heading right towards us! Everyone take cover!
[Max] Get down!
Max!
Will you get rid of everyone?
Yeah.
Max.
Tomorrow, we have a whole day with Anna.
Let's forget the war.
Let's make the best day ever.
Yeah.
I'd like that.
Who's gonna jump first?
I've lit a fire. Come sit with us.
This one?
Flight Lieutenant!
I have good news. You have the night off.
Yes, sir.
[Monet speaking in French] What the hell are you doing? -Why have you switched off the engine? -Where is Paul Delamare?
-Why have you switched off the engine? -Where is Paul Delamare?
Paul Delamare?
-He's in jail. -What?
Delamare is in jail.
What? Gestapo?
No, local police.
Drunk as usual.
Take me to the jail.
[whispering in French] How many inside?
This time of night, only one.
[in French] I don't want any trouble!
Where is Paul Delamare?
Cell number three.
I don't want any trouble.
[in French] Open it.
I'm sorry, Mr. Delamare. I'm in a hurry.
What I'm going to say is top secret.
Do you speak English?
No. Why?
Look. Look. Look closely.
Is the woman in this photograph Marianne Beauséjour?
Who?
Marianne Beauséjour!
Look! Is it her?
My-- Give me the bottle!
Yes or no, and then you get a drink.
Marianne Beauséjour?
Marianne Beauséjour.
Marianne Beauséjour...
Look!
-Yes? -Yes. It's her.
-Yes? -Now let me have a drink.
Look again. Are you sure?
Fuck you! Huh?
Look. Look!
-She look the same. Yeah. -Yes?
She laughs a lot. Brown hair.
-And she has brown eyes, yes? -Right. Brown eyes.
She's got blue eyes! God damn it, blue eyes!
-Right! I mean blue. -Don't you fuck with me, Delamare.
I made a mistake.
-Look! -She has blue eyes.
I know her. Sure.
She is the life of the party.
Go on.
And she paints.
Paints, yes. She paints what?
Wonderful watercolors.
That's right.
-Give me the bottle. -That's right.
[Monet speaking in French] The Krauts!
And she plays the piano like a goddess.
Piano?
[in French] Don't move.
[soldier speaking in French] Who wants some American cigarettes?
[whispers] Hey!
Quoi?
[in French] Sometimes the Krauts...
...they come to get American cigarettes.
American cigarettes?
We confiscate them from the Resistance.
I remember Marianne.
I remember when I met her.
It was in a cafe. In Dordogne.
The place was full of German soldiers.
-We gotta go! -Wait!
There was a piano.
She went to it
and played La Marseillaise
in front of all those Germans!
[soldier] Hey, Pierre!
Lucky Strike?
[whispering in French] Do you have the cigarettes?
Give them to him.
[shouting in French] Behind the jail!
The Resistance are running behind the jail!
[all speaking in French] The Krauts are in the square!
A grenade.
Marianne,
I need you to come with me.
Drop off Anna and come with me now, please.
What the hell are you doing?
Marianne...
I want you to play the piano for me.
You want what?
Why on Earth would you want me to play the piano?
I want you to play the piano because I love you.
What are you talking about?
You haven't slept. Let's go home.
I want you to play La Marseillaise.
Now, you have asked me some strange things...
Play.
Marianne Beauséjour played La Marseillaise
in a cafe full of Germans in '41.
I want you to play it for me.
I know the story.
She was a very brave woman.
I thought they wouldn't find me here.
But they did.
And they threatened Anna.
And I'm... And I'm so sorry.
I am so sorry.
Did you send it?
The message! Did you send it?
Yes.
I'm sorry.
I need to know,
is this real?
Do you love me?
I love you. I love you.
I've loved you since Casablanca.
Okay, listen to me. This is how it will be.
There is a Medicine Hat
in Switzerland or Peru or wherever the hell.
We won't make it.
If we stay one more hour, V Section's gonna order me to kill you.
And when I refuse, they're gonna shoot us both.
You understand?
We go now.
We have to get Anna.
Where is Marianne?
You used my child as collateral.
You've done far worse, Wing Commander Vatan.
Who else is watching us?
I will only give you my...
[Max] Come here, sweetheart. Come here.
It's okay, honey. It's okay. It's okay.
Very good, sir. You're free to pass.
Wait here.
It's over, Max!
The blue-dye came back positive.
But you already know that, don't you?
Frank, wait!
Wait! Let me explain.
-The circuit's been cleaned. -[Frank] Max Vatan,
in the name of His Majesty King George VI...
[Max] They had her boxed in, Frank!
[Frank] I charge you with high treason...
[Max] No! Please!
[Frank] ...for aiding and abetting the German spy
known as Marianne Beauséjour.
[Max] Frank, she had no choice. They threatened Anna.
[Max] Frank, she had no choice. They threatened Anna. They would have killed us all!
[Frank] Max, have you lost your mind? She's a German spy!
[Max] I won't let you do this, Frank.
I've done my duty. We've cleaned up the circuit.
[Frank] They had valuable information, damn you!
[Max] She had no choice! They threatened Anna!
[Frank] If you want to walk away from this,
-then do what needs to be done. -She had no choice.
She had no choice. They had her boxed in.
They would've killed us all.
[Frank] The Section won't care.
[Max] They threatened Anna!
[Frank] For your child's sake, don't throw your life away!
[Max] We did our duty. Just walk away.
Walk away, Frank.
Max.
Je t'aime, mon Quebecois.
I love you.
Take good care of her.
Stand down.
Wing Commander Vatan executed the enemy agent with his own hand.
That is how you will report it.
That is an order.
[Marianne] My dearest, darling Anna.
I'm writing this on a Sunday night in London.
If you're reading this,
then you barely knew me
and may have no memory of who I am.
I am your mother.
You were born in an air raid in the middle of a war
to two people who loved each other.
Our year together in the house in Hampstead
has been the happiest time of my life.
Today, you took your first steps.
I am so grateful that I saw you walk for the first time
with your father by my side.
Max, my love,
you are my world.
I hope you will be able to forgive me.
And I hope you make it to Medicine Hat.
I have a picture of it in my mind,
and I pray Anna's eyes will see it.
My beautiful daughter,
I love you with all my heart.
I hope you will live your life in peace.
I rest knowing your father will take good care of you.
I'd like to feel what you feel...
think what you think.
I want to suck every part of your body.
Nothing about you disgusts me.
- Recently... - There are moments...
- ...I dreamed I was inside you. - ...when I want to stop being me...
- I could feel inside you. - ...so I can be you.
You are me. I am you.
I love breathing you.
So do I.
When will I get my gift?
What gift?
The one you have hidden there.
I don't know what you mean.
- Yes, you do. - No.
- Yes. - I've got no idea.
Yes, you do.
Give it to me!
No!
Give it to me!
Stop!
Don't open it yet!
- I'll kill you! - You're an idiot!
No!
Don't open it.
Are you sure you want to do it?
Yes. Aren't you?
I'm surprised.
I didn't think you were serious.
You said it too.
Yes.
- Forget it. - No, wait.
Are you sure? It's very romantic.
Forget it.
Are you sure or not?
I think so.
Yes?
Yes.
It's over, don't think about it anymore.
What are you doing?
Undress.
Are you sure?
What's wrong?
Are you backing out?
No, I'll do it.
Undress.
I love you.
And I love you.
Don't force it. Relax.
Bye, love!
Stop it.
- Be quiet. - Get off.
- Mom? - No, love, it's your aunt.
I forgot some papers, but I'm going now.
'Bye.
- He's taking so long. - Stay another day.
No, I'm sleeping at home even if it's on a scaffold.
- I told Pablo already. - It isn't so bad here.
- Or so good. - That's gratitude!
- And it'll stink of paint. - I love the smell of paint.
Laura, will you show us a photo of Carlos?
- You want to see Carlos? - Yes, I do.
- And so does your mother. - Of course.
Look.
He's gorgeous!
That's at his grandma's birthday.
And what's that?
- A suckling pig. Isn't it like a cow? - Yes!
- Have you invited him on Saturday? - Yes.
- Are we going to meet him? - Yes, we're so lucky.
We want to go to an amazing place that Carlos knows.
Great. When?
A weekend.
- Who with? - Carlos and me.
Laura, we've been here three months and all I hear about is Carlos.
Why not meet up with people from school?
Or invite them on Saturday. Call Juan.
Juan?
His mother says he's coming for a few days.
Who's Juan?
- Her "friend" from the village. - No.
- Oh, no? - What's this?
- Look who's here. - Great!
- Well, are we all ready? - Yes, please, take them away.
You bitch.
I don't like the view either.
But painted like this, it looks bigger, right, Merche?
That's true, it does.
- You see I painted the gray you liked? - Yeah.
It's turned out really well.
- It's kind of rustic. - Industrial style.
Does it need a coat of something?
- Maybe a varnish? - Yeah, but...
You've just seen each other!
I'm so happy to have your semen inside me.
It's like you hadn't left.
I don't know why I couldn't control it.
Hey, don't worry, my period's due any day.
- I am you. - And I am you.
I can't talk. I'll text you. Kisses.
I love you.
What is it, Dad?
- How was yesterday with the faculty? - Fine.
Did you have Civil Law with Vazquez?
No, his assistant came.
Is there any concept you find particularly difficult?
No, it's fine.
Remember to say hello to Vazquez when you see him.
Sure.
The meat is wonderful.
Thank you.
APPRENTICE WANTED
CLOCK SHOP
Carlos!
- You skipped class. - It was rubbish.
Laura! Laura.
You left this on your desk.
- Thanks. - You're welcome.
- See you tomorrow. - Okay.
- Why bring it to class? - My mother searches through everything.
Hey! I wanted it as a souvenir!
'L' HAS A DICK
Marta!
- Can I have a word? - What about?
When you arrive somewhere you say hello.
Please.
Remember the bag I left behind and you returned to me?
Yes.
- Did you see what was inside? - A box.
- Did you look inside the box? - No.
- Are you sure? - Why, what was it? Drugs?
Hey, I didn't look!
Before you took it, was anyone else looking at it?
Is the interrogation over?
They're beautiful.
Hey, the other day I saw online that the fine arts tests are in June.
Yes, but it isn't so easy.
You have to go to an academy and be well-prepared.
Well, why not go to the academy and get prepared?
And if you're accepted, then you can decide.
Have you had your period yet?
Not yet.
Don't worry. Two more days.
Don't joke.
Well,
- we'd save on condoms, wouldn't we? - Don't joke about it.
And what about this?
What are you doing?
Get off!
Stop it! No!
- I'll get it. - Hello.
- Hi, there. - Hello.
Sweetheart!
- Hello, love. - Hello! I'm Eloisa.
- Hello. - Hello, this is Ángel.
- You look lovely. - Thank you.
What have you done to your hair? You look great.
- I have to cut it. - No way.
Don't mention my hair or my job interview.
I can help you with that.
I'm a hairdresser now!
No, seriously, I know of a job that might interest you.
We'll talk about that later.
Wow, the house is lovely!
It still needs a few touches-- some pictures on the walls...
It looks great. Happy birthday, love.
- How is she doing? - Ask her.
Here's your gift, love.
- Can I exchange it? - The gift receipt is in the bag.
You've changed so much. You're all grown up.
- Well, where's the famous boyfriend? - That's enough.
- He's a friend. - Yes, sorry.
The friend. Where is he?
- Dad, don't say anything. - I won't.
- Hello. - Hello.
It's the friend! I'm the father-in-law.
- I mean, the father. - Don't listen to him.
- I'll take those. - No, they're not for you.
- Are you Merche? - Yes, her mother.
- Hello. A pleasure. - I'm Carlos.
- Here, for you, for the new house. - Liliums, my favorite.
You know how to win over the mother-in-law.
I like him, Laura. He's polite. You could learn from him.
I'm Eloisa, her stepmother.
- But a good one, a very good one. - Nice to meet you.
If they were for the mother-in-law, what do you have for my daughter?
- Dad! - Thinking about the dowry?
Well, life's tough these days.
Thank you.
- How far along are you? - I'm due in three months. Thanks.
- Do you mind if I touch it? - No, go ahead.
Are you two thinking about it?
We want to, but Pablo travels a lot.
It's easy with the women in this family.
If you sneeze at them they get pregnant.
- Dad! - Oh, please!
Well, is anyone missing?
- Yes, my cousin. - Anita? Good!
Here.
But you already gave me a present.
Carlos! I love it.
I love it.
- Wow, it's like an engagement ring. - It's lovely.
- You've got good taste. - Thank you.
I'll get it.
- Anita! - Hello.
- How are you? - Great!
Where's the birthday girl?
HAPPY BIRTHDAY
What a beautiful place.
- It's lovely. - Let me see.
It's an amazing place.
With all the vegetation and palm trees it's like an African jungle.
I've heard of that place, it's like a tropical ecosystem.
It's amazing that it's in Spain.
- Less than 60 miles away. - Right.
- More wine? - Yes, please.
- Can you camp there? - They look the other way.
I don't know why we're talking about it.
Carlos, you should help me.
School is more difficult now.
You can't meet up during the week
and then talk on the phone until all hours.
- Have you nothing to say? - Me?
You're doing very well. I agree with everything.
Laura?
Marta?
The teacher was worried. He sent me to check on you.
Are you okay?
Christ!
Look at it, please. I can't look.
Neither can I.
What will you do if you are? Have an abortion, right?
- No, I'll have it. - What?
Are you stupid?
Look at it, please.
But, Laura, your father will kill you.
- They're divorced, he doesn't care. - And your mother?
She'll be annoyed, but she had me at 17.
You'll be cleaning up baby shit and missing college.
Do you want to spend another four years studying?
Fuck, Laura, you'll get a belly, you'll be like a cow.
You'll be the fucking joke of the school.
What do I care?
I'll have it in the village, like my mother did.
It's nice there.
On your own?
No, Carlos would come and I bet my mother would too.
Her marriage is shit, she hasn't got a job.
Two lines mean I am.
One.
It's just as well, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
Come on.
Don't keep thinking about it.
Some of us are meeting at my house on Saturday.
I'll send you the address if you feel like coming.
- A pajama party? - It sounds silly, but it'll be fun.
You're an artist.
I knew you'd like it.
There's a guy in the street staring at us.
No, on the other sidewalk.
- Who was it? - My boyfriend from the village.
Well, my ex.
He called and said he wanted to see me.
I told him I was with you.
But he kept insisting, so I saw him earlier.
The thing is, we'd taken some time out but we never split up.
And then I met you.
Then he isn't your ex.
He is.
What's his name?
Juan.
And when did you take time out? When you came here?
No, two months before.
So you've been cheating on him with me.
Technically, yes.
If he hadn't appeared, would you have told me?
Yes, I would.
Carlos, I'd have told you but you were showing me the masks.
It's all right, really.
I'll tell you everything about my life, my boyfriends.
I want to go home.
Carlos, please. It's Saturday.
Look, it threw me. I just have to take it in.
I'll text you later.
Carlos, please.
I'm coming, I'm coming!
Hello, love. How are you?
I was talking to your mother. I took a course I want her to do.
As a market trader. Know what that is?
You can earn a lot--
Laura!
Laura, love!
She's a slut. She's a fucking slut.
But you never liked Pablo.
And him?
He's going to be a father and he sleeps with a slut?
God knows what he's given that baby.
Maybe they'll get back together.
I'd slit my wrists first, I swear.
I don't think it's such a big deal.
Really, I don't understand you.
I hate lies.
Why that expression?
I didn't lie to you.
What if I had been pregnant?
Why bring that up?
- What would you have done? - We're not talking about that.
What would you have done?
I don't know. I don't know.
I'm 18 and you're 17.
Thanks for coming, but I'd rather be alone.
He started touching my legs to take the ants off
and he pulled my skirt up.
I was hysterical because I hate ants.
And he knew that. He was making it all up.
In fact, he took a photo
and said if I didn't undress
he'd post it online and my parents would see it.
Fuck, that's lousy.
- How long ago was that? - I was 14.
The worst thing is that now, when I want to come,
- I think about him. - No way!
- Yes. - Fuck.
- I've never come. - No?
You've never had an orgasm?
No.
- Have you tried with an older guy? - No, that's disgusting!
Don't be silly.
If you haven't screwed a 40-year-old, you haven't screwed.
Your turn, Lola.
What will I tell you?
Tell us about the first time you came.
No, something heavier.
Go on.
This summer, in a bar, I met an old boyfriend,
and I went with him to see if he'd improved.
We were in bed, kissing and remembering the old days,
and suddenly he said he'd do it from behind.
Wait.
Behind, like a dog, or behind-behind?
- Behind-behind. - No!
He started putting it in...
and at first, it was hurting a bit.
That's normal.
But suddenly I started liking it, a lot,
and I came. I came like a pig!
No! And what's it like?
It's like shitting inside.
You're filthy!
Just turn it off.
Your turn.
Tell us something.
I can't think of anything.
- Come on. - I can think of something.
What?
The parcel.
You swore you didn't open it!
What? The parcel of rolled toilet paper.
Oh, that nonsense!
What?
I did a pregnancy test.
- Are you pregnant? - No.
She didn't want an abortion.
- Seriously? - Yes.
Well, tell us something kinky.
Yeah, filthy.
Have you never done anything very...?
In the village, don't you screw cows and things for fun?
Sure, since we don't have TV or the Internet we have to do something.
You have to tell us something real.
Come on, tell us something.
Come on, tell us. Something heavy.
I did something you couldn't imagine.
I've done everything.
Not this.
Laura... are you awake?
Yes.
Are you okay?
Yes.
I'm sorry that you're worried.
I'd like to be able to love the way you can.
Have you never been in love?
Yes,
but I always end up suffering too much.
You're beautiful.
We're going to have fun.
Let's go to sleep.
Hello.
I left a message on the phone.
I was with Marta, from school, and two other girls.
You want to live your life?
Then you can pay for it.
Tomorrow you start looking for a weekend job.
Is that what you care about?
Have you nothing to tell me?
To tell you? Absolutely nothing.
Leave the phone there. I pay for it.
- You want the phone? - Yes, I want the phone.
Okay.
Take the fucking phone!
What about the fraud case?
- Was it true? - I don't doubt it. It's fraud.
First, he makes an inter-community acquisition
in which there is a tax on consumer spending that is also deducted.
When the merchandise enters the interior market,
it has the output tax which gives the buyer the right to deduct it,
but then he pays it...
Babe, are you okay? Why haven't you texted?
Carlos, this is Merche.
- This is no time to call. - I have to speak to Laura.
You can speak tomorrow. Please, don't call again at this time.
Forgive me.
You forgive me.
If you'd been pregnant, we would have had it, I swear.
Excuse me.
If you don't want an apprentice, remove the sign. It can mislead people.
No one has ever come in to ask about that sign.
How do I know you won't steal from me?
What?
How do I know you're not a thief?
I'm not going to steal. I can even leave you my ID.
That's no use to me.
Look.
I can leave this watch as collateral. It's a pretty good one.
My father gave it to me.
Unpaid?
Monday to Friday, 9:00 to 2:00 and 4:00 to 8:00.
All right, come tomorrow at 9:00.
I couldn't do it, old guys don't turn me on.
Not even Matt Damon?
I don't know. I've never been with a 40-year-old.
There's one I would do it with.
With her stepfather.
My stepfather? You don't even know him!
I saw him on Facebook!
- You slut! - I want to see him.
All right. I've got a couple.
Erase that photo!
What was that?
- Show me the photo. - All right.
You barely inhaled. Take a drag.
- You go all out! - What style!
The problem with getting pregnant
is that you're stuck with the father the rest of your life.
I'd like to be connected to Carlos forever.
- But he's gay. - Don't say that!
Fuck!
Talk to him. He might need help to come out of the closet.
He isn't gay.
- Stop that. - Well, he isn't exactly normal.
I would know.
I like Carlos. Maybe he's bisexual.
- It's possible. - Maybe he's into everything.
Aren't you coming to bed?
No, I'm not sleepy.
- Is anything wrong? - No. I'm going to finish this.
I'll wait for you in bed.
What are you studying?
Math.
I was terrible at that.
I wanted to ask you a question.
Go ahead.
Look, I don't mind and I won't get angry.
I know that the day we moved...
you slept with Carlos in your aunt's bed.
That's normal.
The bed is bigger and you're at that age.
It's okay.
On Saturday, did you use our bedroom?
It's all right, I won't be angry.
No.
Laura, I don't mind, and I won't tell your mother.
I was out all evening and I slept at a friend's house.
Why?
A friend's house?
That's why she's so angry.
Yeah, well.
- What will you do? - I don't know.
- I'd like you to explain. - What's wrong?
You don't want a boyfriend who just repairs watches?
Look, you can repair watches or do whatever you want.
But you've got a lot of talent.
What do you know? What qualifies you to say I have talent?
You could pass the tests.
What do you get from working on watches?
I like it.
And I have time to think.
I have to go. See you tomorrow, okay?
So long.
Are you all right?
I'm sorry about Pablo.
Pablo? He's going to Stuttgart.
To work?
I need you to do me a favor.
Pablo found...
part of a wrapper
from a condom
in our bedroom.
If he asks me again,
I'm going to tell him
that I've spoken to you and that you and Carlos
used the bedroom when we weren't here.
Okay?
Don't get all sanctimonious.
There's a party on Saturday night.
I'll be home late.
Carlos, sit down.
Your mother and I want to talk to you.
Vazquez called.
We know you haven't been in class for two weeks.
Did we put any pressure on you to study law?
Did we say anything?
No.
We said it was a personal decision.
If you've started law, you have to finish it.
I'd rather not do that.
- What? - Not do what?
Is it your girlfriend?
No.
This isn't a joke. We're talking about your future.
May I get up now?
Yes.
The cardboard, Laura.
It doesn't stop.
- What is it? - The lift.
You know no one comes here.
Someone's there.
I'm about to come.
Laura, someone's there.
That's impossible.
Yes there is! Fuck!
- What's wrong? - I can't take it anymore.
We have to keep hiding like dogs.
It's shit.
We have to do something.
Get dressed, go on.
Let's run away.
Let's go and live together.
- What are you talking about? - Running away.
Far from this fucking city.
Right now, just the way we are.
I don't believe you!
- Seriously? - Absolutely.
Look, I could work in a factory,
or in the country.
Would you like to?
We could go to my village.
Let's go! It's the answer to all our problems.
We'd be away from our parents, we could do what we wanted
- without explaining ourselves. - We'd have our own house.
- We'd make love when we wanted. - And be free!
You'll love the village. You can paint in peace.
We can't go there.
It's the first place they'd look.
You'll miss this term but then you can make it up.
Then you can study or do what you want.
I don't want to study.
I'll be working, so I can take care of you.
We could go to Medina del Campo. I'd get work there.
- I've got a friend there. - Fuck, that's perfect!
We'll have a sound system and play music as loud as we like.
That'll have to wait a while, but we'll get it.
Run!
Wait!
- My green sweater is in your house. - Forget it.
But we're here.
Let's go now, come on. Or we'll never go.
I'll just get my sweater.
We'll buy another one. Please.
We'll take the first bus.
It'll just take a minute.
Please.
Don't be silly.
Hello, love!
- Hello, Carmen. - Is Carlos with you?
Yes, but I just wanted to get my sweater.
No, come in. Would you like some torrijas?
I love torrijas. But we can't.
Come on! Keep me company for a while, I'm so bored.
- Charo wasn't able to come today. - I don't know.
- Come on. - I'll see what Carlos says.
Carlos loves torrijas. Leave it to me, I'll persuade him.
- I don't know. - Come on, come in.
I put the sweater in his closet.
Use the slippers, love. I just waxed the floor.
And you can stay out as late as you want?
Yes.
I promised I'd go to the party.
- Hey, can I ask you a question? - Of course.
Have you ever thought you might like boys?
I don't know. Even just a bit?
That you're bisexual?
What's this about?
Some very cool people are bisexual, like Lady Gaga or Angelina Jolie.
What are you trying to say?
There are people who think that what we did on my birthday...
I don't know.
You should know.
And I do.
Come on, we'll stay a while and then we'll leave.
What people?
What do you mean?
Before you said, "There are people who think..."
Did you tell anyone?
- I don't understand. - Did you tell anyone what we did?
- It's a figure of speech. - Wait.
Come on, just for a while.
Hey!
- This is girls' night. - Don't be like that.
Let's go to the bathroom.
Hey, hang on, okay?
I'll be right back. Go get a drink.
It stops you from feeling dizzy, stops headaches.
You can take anything, your folks won't know.
- What is it? - What does it matter?
The thing is it works. Give me 20 and you'll see.
Don't give him anything. I don't trust him.
Look, I take them from my brother.
He gets them for after his chemotherapy.
They leave you feeling like new. What are you looking at?
- Sorry. - You want to make out?
- Or do you want a pill? 20. - No, thanks.
Fuck, what are you doing?
Calm down, we'll be out now. Three of us have to piss.
What a pain.
You're making a mess of that. Let me do it.
I told Alex that Susana fancies him and wants to screw him.
She'll kill you.
I had to do something about them. They're both useless.
- You're crazy. - What are you doing?
- I'm wetting myself! - Take it easy!
Mega-pain!
- What do you think? - Wait a minute.
- I'm going to get Carlos. - No, wait, wait.
- We'll tell Susana about Alex. - He's been waiting for ages.
Don't feel guilty. Come on!
Tell Alex what you like. Explain in detail.
Tell him how you want him to undress you, to suck your tits,
- how to eat your... - Lola, you're a brute.
I want him to be my boyfriend.
All right, to love!
To love!
Another one.
- Not for me. - What's up?
- Where are you going? - I'll see you later.
Laura!
Where are you going?
- Have you seen my boyfriend? - No,
but if I were him, I wouldn't leave you on your own.
When will you give me a chance?
I'd never get involved with you.
I don't want to get involved, I want to be with you.
- I'm back now. - I'm leaving.
Don't. We'll have fun and then go where you want.
Who did you tell about what we did?
- What do you mean? - Fuck you!
Carlos, please.
- Laura, you're here! - Hi, Alex.
- This is Carlos, my boyfriend. - Hi.
Alex, a classmate.
- Want to get some drinks? - All right.
Where are you going?
- Carlos! - Swear that you told no one!
- What's wrong with you? - Swear.
I swear.
Go back to your friends.
What's wrong?
I'd like you to be happy.
I'm happy with you.
We need time.
I don't know who I am.
Or who you are.
Maybe I'm losing my mind.
Is it full?
One of the disadvantages of being a girl.
- I'll see you later. - Hey...
which painters do you like?
Why?
You paint, don't you?
Well, I really like Boccioni.
The Italian futurist.
- You know him? - Of course.
They say he was killed falling off a horse, but I think it was suicide.
My turn.
There's a room full of paintings
with people who seem to look at you as if you'd killed someone.
Behind it is the secret door into the bedrooms.
That's cool.
I really like you. I think I may be falling in love.
I'm in love with my boyfriend.
Your ex-boyfriend, you mean, because he's left you.
No, we've taken time out to think.
To think what? That's stupid. I don't need to think. I'm not...
What have you done?
Fuck...
- Wait. - No, leave it.
- It's nothing. - What happened?
The fucking glass.
Don't ruin your scarf. It's nothing.
I'll go to the washroom. Don't ruin your scarf, Laura.
It's just blood.
Stay here. Don't worry.
Where are you going?
- Look, I'm okay. - You're not. Where are you going?
I'm okay, Laura.
You can't ride the bike like this. You're drunk.
- I'm okay, Laura. - No, you're not okay.
Look at yourself, you're not okay.
- Let Alex take you. - Yes, Alex can take you.
Sure, I don't mind.
I wanted to take you home.
Do it for me, please.
All right? Please.
Seriously.
- Alex, can you take him home? - Have you got a helmet?
- Alex, are you fit to drive? - Yeah, I'm great.
The keys.
You're stoned out of your mind.
And I didn't make out once!
- What does that say? - You're filthy!
We haven't had enough to drink. I usually put the whole thing.
- Can we go now? - Yes, let's go.
- And when will I see you? - I don't know.
I'm here every Saturday.
Shit, the bus!
- 'Bye. - 'Bye.
- Hi, there! How are you? - Hello.
- Were you at Stusy? - No, at Spook.
- The '82 party. - Cool.
- Who was the DJ? - Someone from Amsterdam.
What was the music?
Techno.
- Do you like techno? - Not much.
It's not your style.
Do you mind sitting in the back?
- What was it like? - Pretty good. It's cool.
- Where have you been? - It's near La Central.
- It's a cool place, it was packed. - Yeah?
How come you left so early?
I don't know. I got a bit fed up in the end.
What's wrong?
Are you okay? You seem strange.
You'll never want to be with me again.
That isn't the question. We've taken time out to think.
I'm going to date someone.
You're joking.
No, I'm not.
Who?
El Moro.
You are joking!
He isn't like you think. He's in love with me.
Are you serious?
- Yes. - With El Moro?
But he screws everything!
Can you keep your voice down?
If I date him you'll never come back to me.
It's only been two weeks.
I don't know what's wrong with me.
- What about me? - You left me!
Just so we could sort things out.
- That isn't possible now. - Don't say that.
It is. I love you.
- We're very different. - Complementary.
- Don't you love me? - Yes.
Well, then?
I don't know. I need to try.
And then I'll know what I really want.
I need to try.
Are you okay?
A bit dizzy.
We'll talk tomorrow.
What are you doing here?
I wanted to see you.
I've been thinking
and it's best if you go out with that guy.
So you can appreciate what we have and know what I'm worth.
Thanks, I have to go.
And I wanted to say that you won't lose me.
- I will lose you. - No.
- You'll never forgive me. - No.
When are you seeing him?
- Let me go. - Tell me.
Are you going to bed with him?
Don't do this.
Tell me. Tell me, please.
Tell me.
We're not children.
I know you're going to do it.
- Tell me. - I don't know.
When are you seeing him?
What does it matter?
Exactly. If it doesn't matter...
I don't know, I don't know.
- Tell me, please. - Friday!
All right. Wait a minute.
Call me afterwards.
- No, Carlos. - Please, promise me.
- Call me when you come back. - Okay.
FRIDAY, APRIL 29
You're fired.
- What? - You're fired.
You gave me the morning off.
Your father told me you're studying law.
So go back to your studies. It's your duty.
Wait.
Here.
You'll thank me for it.
Go and get dressed.
Grandma died.
I don't feel well. I'm going to the cafe.
I have some ibuprofen.
- Thanks. - Don't take too long.
Do you have some money?
Grandma is in room 7.
Hurry back.
AVAILABLE
OCCUPIED
- What are you doing? - Waiting for Laura.
I thought she was with you.
No, she's with another guy.
I understand.
I want to go away with her for a few days.
- You love her very much, don't you? - Yes.
I think we just need some time.
- If we're alone, we can sort it out. - What you need
is to give each other space.
Laura is too young for such a serious relationship, and so are you.
You still have a lot of living to do.
We love each other.
There she is.
If she wants to go away with you for a few days, I don't mind.
You're late.
We agreed I'd call you.
What were you saying to my mother?
Did you do it?
I didn't even see him.
What's this about?
Are you seeing him tomorrow?
This was a bad idea.
Don't do it, please.
Let's go to the place with the palm trees.
We could go tomorrow morning.
Don't wait for me tomorrow.
I won't phone you, and I won't answer my phone.
Don't do it, please!
What's so funny?
- Are you sure I can go in there? - Of course you can.
- Isn't it neat? - It really is.
And this is the Chamber of Deputies,
with representatives of the main royal towns.
And the clergy here are the scariest.
- They terrify me. - My God!
- Look at their faces! - You see?
They're looking at us.
And here's the secret door I told you about.
This leads to the bedrooms.
Wow!
- Did he really sleep here? - And he brought his mistresses.
The fucking kings are something else.
Come here.
Lie down. It's an amazing sensation.
I don't think I dare.
Are you scared?
- What if it breaks? - Don't be silly.
Look. You see?
El Moro is a bastard.
But don't worry, he dumps them really fast.
Forget about girlfriends.
With a good jerk-off...
Dickhead!
Pass me the joint.
- It's passed, you don't ask for it. - That's rubbish.
Listen, it's too bad about El Moro because he really puts on a show.
He never fails.
He takes them on a night tour of the parliament building,
a private one!
And he screws them on the king's bed.
No way.
Didn't you know?
In the parliament building?
Yes.
A royal screw!
Nobody believes that.
He works weekends and studies weekdays.
Since he's a security guard,
he gives them a guided tour, he shows them the paintings,
all of that...
and then he screws them.
The first time is always there.
He says they go crazy for it.
Don't laugh, he did your sister.
- That's a lie. - You know it isn't.
- It is a fucking lie. - Do you need to see the used condom?
Where are you going, dickhead?
Hey, where are you going? You can't go in there!
It's an emergency, I have to speak to El Moro. He works here.
There's no one here with that name.
Well, it's a nickname. His name is...
Garcia.
Or Garces. Garces.
- What do you want? - I have to speak to him.
He's doing his rounds.
Can you call him?
- If he's your friend, you call him. - My battery's flat.
Yeah, and you're drunk.
- Can you call him? - He'll be back soon.
Please call him from that gadget.
- It's for emergencies. - This is an emergency!
- What's the emergency? - He's fucking my girlfriend!
- Calm down, calm down. - Laura! Laura!
- Move! - Motherfuckers!
Get the hell out of here!
- Kid, you've better get out of here. - Scram.
Moro.
- Moro. - Sorry.
What is it?
We had a jealous boyfriend here looking for you.
Yeah, very funny.
Don't be a smartass, listen to the shouting outside.
What are you talking about, moron?
Laura!
Laura!
Laura!
Laura!
Laura!
Do you want to go to him?
Laura, please!
Bitch!
Laura!
Bitch!
Bitch...
Emergency services.
There's a bomb in the parliament building.
Under the king's bed.
- It'll explode in 15 minutes. - Please tell me your name and ID.
She's so beautiful.
Yes, she is.
I was at the hospital seeing my sister.
It all went well.
I'm going back to the village.
I've spoken to your father so that you can stay if you want.
We'll find a college dorm.
Do you remember when I was seven?
I was very sick, I had a fever.
Dad had just left and you were very angry.
You told me that I should never marry
until I was economically independent.
I don't know if it was because of the fever
but I was really scared,
and I told you
that I couldn't live if you died.
Do you remember?
I don't know why on earth I said
"economically independent" to a child of seven.
He hasn't come out for three weeks.
Maybe you can persuade him.
Carlos, my son, look who's come to see you.
Help me persuade him to apply for Fine Arts.
The tests are in June and he'll have to get ready.
Please.
Hello, Carlos.
I know you don't want to see me but...
I needed to say goodbye properly.
I'm going to the village. My mother is separated.
I wanted you to know
that you're the best thing that ever happened to me.
And that I'm very sorry that I hurt you.
How's El Moro?
That's over. It was a mistake.
Know what? My sister was born.
When I held her I thought she was our daughter.
I love you.
I think I'll always love you.
Yeah.
It's true.
Until a good dick appears.
I think I did it to try to forget you,
and so you'd forget me.
Did you fuck him?
Being with you
was the loveliest, most romantic thing I've ever known,
and I regret telling the girls about what we did.
Did you come?
No one has given me as much pleasure as you.
You haven't answered me.
Look.
I did this so you'll never forget our story.
I had to redo it lots of times.
Did you come?
Yes, I came.
Sex with you is wonderful.
And I want you to know that my heart is yours
and it always will be,
and whenever you desire me you'll have me.
Now.
What?
I want to have you now.
Show me that they're not just words.
You want to make love?
Call it what you want.
Carlos, you're not well now.
That's why.
Maybe it would help me.
- Are you sure? - Yes.
Will you give me a kiss at least?
I'm on the pill.
I don't want to catch anything.
You're not like this.
- Don't let anyone say otherwise. - Shut up.
Get on top.
I'll be back soon.
Faster.
I hope we realize we can't live without each other,
and we can start over from the beginning.
Stop.
Please,
don't forget me.
I'm sorry.
I am you.
I am you.
I am you.
I'd like to feel what you feel,
think what you think.
I am you.
I am you.
- You are me. - You are me.
- I could feel inside you. - There are moments,
- when I want to stop being me... - I dreamed I was inside you.
- ...so I can be you. - Recently...
Nothing about you disgusts me.
I want to suck every part of your body.
I'd like to feel what you feel...
- I'd like to... - ...think what you think.
I'd like to feel what you feel,
think what you think.
I want to suck every part of your body.
Nothing about you disgusts me.
- Recently... - There are moments...
- ...I dreamed I was inside you. - ...when I want to stop being me...
- I could feel inside you. - ...so I can be you.
The trunk is red. The car is black. Lid of the trunk is red.
[mechanic] Yeah, so?
So, I said "nondescript," you know? It's got a red trunk.
-"Nondescript"? -Yeah, as in non-recognizable,
as in not a black fucking car with a red fucking trunk.
[mechanic] This is what they paid for.
-Shocks good? -[mechanic] Yeah.
-Brakes? -Yep, struts, brakes, suspension...
steering wheel, everything that was on that list. Six grand worth.
-Six grand, huh? -[mechanic] Yeah.
-Fill it up? -I gotta go, man.
[man on recording] Hey, this is Clay. Leave me a message. I'll call you.
-[signal beeps] -Clay, I don't wanna leave you a message.
I'm on my way to work. I should only take 30 minutes or so,
and then I'm gonna go to the party, but I got no parking instructions, bro.
Nobody called me about parking.
Clay, pick up the phone. Call me back, come on.
Hey, Kate, what's going on? I'm working, sweetheart.
[Kate] Dad, I'm going to the Phoenix tonight, -so I'll be home at, like, 1:00 or 2:00. -1:00 or 2:00?
-so I'll be home at, like, 1:00 or 2:00. -1:00 or 2:00?
-Yes. -What's the Phoenix? -It's a place. -Yeah? What kind of place?
-It's a place. -Yeah? What kind of place? [Kate] A music place, like live music.
Oh, like live music? Wow, that sounds fun. Who's driving?
[Kate] Dad, I'm not calling to ask you. I'm calling to tell you, as a courtesy.
[chuckles] Sweetheart, you're 13 years old. 13. You are calling to ask me. Well, you don't have to go.
13. You are calling to ask me. Well, you don't have to go. You can stay home. Your choice.
[Kate] I think Audrey's driving. But maybe Ryan.
-No Ryan. -Dad!
We're not going through this again. You screwed up with Ryan last time.
[Kate] That's so unfair. You can't make me stay home on a Friday night.
It's not up for discussion, Kate. I can't talk. I'm busy. I gotta work.
I'm just gonna go anyways.
Don't leave the apartment or you're grounded for life.
-Do you hear me? -I'm going anyways.
-Don't leave the-- -I'm going anyways!
Kate...?
[passenger] Red trunk?
[passenger] I mean, I'm not questioning. You must be a good driver.
It's just I've never seen anyone drive a stick on a job before.
Yeah, it's always automatics. Column shifters or whatever.
Wanna hear something funny? My girlfriend thinks I'm too old to rock a hawk.
So, you know what I did? I just grabbed a pair of her clippers.
I just zinged this right-- voop-- right off, like that.
The last couple of weeks... [rustles] ever since.
What's your name, man?
[driver] I don't wanna talk.
What?
Chitchat. I don't chitchat unless it's about the job.
-Talk about the job? -Yeah.
You know, "get in," "look out," "watch for the cops."
-That kind of shit. -Cop? Cop? Where is he? Where is he? [laughs]
I'm just playing.
What's in the bag?
[driver] Sit back.
-What's that? -Sit back.
-What is it? -Sit back.
-I will. -Just sit the fuck back. It's my lunch.
-Your lunch? -Yeah, my lunch.
[driver] I don't know how long I'm gonna be out here tonight, so I brought my lunch.
Oh, so you think we might be out here a while, huh?
Let's hope not, right?
-Just sit back. -Okay.
[mohawk man] You're carrying though, right?
What?
You got a piece on you? A "whistle"? A gun?
All business with the big man up front. No chitchat, no talk. Silent type.
That's Clint Eastwood up front.
You know who that is? Do the brothers love Clint Eastwood?
-What's your fucking name, man? -I'm not telling you my name, man.
-No? -No.
-Nothing? -Nothing.
I gotta call you something.
Three dudes sitting in a fucking car, nothing to call each other--
that's just weird, man. I think that's just--
that's just fucking-- just fucking weird.
Yeah, you know, what's weird, cowboy, is you keep fucking asking me my name.
That's weird. I drive the car. I'm the wheelman, okay?
That's it. End of story.
-That's it, you're just the wheelman? -That's right.
-You just drive the car. -Yeah, I do.
Well, then I'll just call you "Wheelman."
-That's fine. -I know that's fine.
And you can call me "Motherfucker."
-[Motherfucker] What about you? -My name is Ben Okri,
but you can call me "I want my fucking money."
The whole thing, huh? Well, okey-dokey, Ben Okri.
The guy in the front has a black belt in fucking weirdness. That's Wheelman.
I'm Motherfucker and...
here we are.
It's still fucking weird, but, at least, we're all somebody, right?
Fuck are you doing? Pull closer.
-I can see everything better from here. -It's a long fucking walk. Pull closer.
I'll be here. I'll be right here.
-Yeah? -[man] You know who this is?
Yeah, I think so.
-[bangs] -Pull fucking closer next time!
[man on phone] Say it.
You're the handler. You hired Clay. Clay hired me.
[handler] So, you're driving for me.
-How do you like the car? -It's fine, man. It's fine. Where's Clay?
-No issues with it? -The trunk's red, but--
-What's that? -Nothing. It's fine, man.
I need the drop. Clay never gave me the drop.
What do you think of the other two?
They're inside doing your thing right now.
-Oh, they're in the bank? -They're in the bank right now.
-I need the drop. I don't have the drop. -What do you think of me?
I don't know you.
You don't know me? You just told me you know who I am.
I know it's your job, okay? I never met you. I don't know your name.
-I don't know anything. -I know you.
Is that right?
How many years did you do for that warehouse fire? Three years.
I'm guessing your ass is a little tender, and you owe big. And so, here you are.
Yeah. What the fuck is this?
For the rest of the night, you don't take any calls except for this blocked number.
When the other two get back in the car, they'll put the money in the trunk.
-Then I want you to leave them. -Fuck does that mean?
-Leave them behind. -I'm not fucking doing that.
-You will. -I'm not leaving them behind.
-They're gonna kill you. -Fuck...
-Where's Clay? -I told them to kill you at the drop.
-I wanna talk to Clay. -Leave them behind,
or they'll shoot you in the head at the drop.
-Open up! Open the fucking trunk! -Fuck. Where the fuck is Clay?
-[phone line beeping] -[Motherfucker] Let's go, let's go!
Hey! What the--? Ugh!
Hey, motherfucker!
Fuck! Fuck!
[recording] Hey, this is Clay. Leave me a message.
-Clay? -I'll call you.
Clay, there's a fucking problem, man! Call me back! -Shit. -[phone ringing]
-Hello? -[woman] ...that's totally ridiculous--
-Hello, hello? -[woman] Hello?
-Where's Clay? -Uh... hey, where'd Clay go?
-I'm not sure... -See if he's there. See if he's there.
He's not here. I don't know where he's at. I just picked up his phone.
-Wanna leave a message? -Listen, tell him to call his driver.
-His driver? -Yeah, his fucking driver. It's urgent.
Don't be fucking around! Tell him to call his driver!
-Okay, his dri-- -Stupid.
-Where the fuck's Clay? -[handler] Where are you?
I wanna talk to Clay, man.
-Where are you? -I don't know.
I don't know where I am, man. Lincoln-- Lincoln and...
Lincoln and 3rd somewhere. Where's the drop?
-You're not headed to the drop. -Come again?
Now that I know you're the kind of guy who would leave his fucking crew behind,
-you're gonna do a few things for me. -Hey, hey! Fuckface!
-You told me to leave them! -[handler chuckles]
It's not your fault. You do what you gotta do to survive, right?
You know what? Fuck you, man. I don't know you. I wanna talk to Clay.
-There's a few things you need to do. -Fuck you! Where's Clay?
You better shut your fucking mouth and do what I tell you to do. You hear me?
-Or you're gonna get hurt. -Why don't you tell me--
why don't you tell me where you are, tough guy, okay?
-And then you could hurt me? -No, we'll get to that.
I hope we do.
First things first. I want you to count the money.
-What do you mean, count the money? -Asshole, pull over and count the money.
I'm not fucking counting anything till I get to a safe spot.
How long?
-Where's "out of area"? -What?
Your number says "out of area."
-Where is that? -Don't worry about where I am.
-Worry about where the fuck you are. -I hope you're somewhere safe, pal.
-How long? -Hold on.
Fuck.
It's about 200 grand, maybe a little bit more.
Hello?
Hello?
-[handler] Yeah. How much? -It's about $200,000.
-Did you count it? -Yeah, I counted it.
-It's different fucking bills. -Different bills?
-So, you didn't count it? -No.
Look, it's different fucking denominations. It's about 200,000.
Go fucking count it again!
Go fuck yourself. I'm not counting it again.
Fuck! Fuck! Damn it.
[mutters] Fucking with this shit...
It's 230 fucking thousand dollars, minus a thousand for me counting it twice.
That's my clerical fee.
[handler] Yes, how much?
Jesus fucking Christ! 230-- where do you keep fucking going?
-How much money is there? -It's fucking two-- it's $230,000.
-You sure? -I'm fucking sure.
All right, sit tight. I'll call you back.
What the fuck is going on?
Fuck.
[handler] You pulled away.
-How did you know I pulled away? -Go to Chandler Station.
[handler] Someone else calling you?
No.
-Is that the drop? -Do you know where Chandler Station is?
Yeah, I know where fucking Chandler Station is.
I'm not a moron. What do you want me to do?
I want you to drive there and don't answer any other phone calls.
-Go fuck yourself. -[ringtone playing]
God...
-Dad? -What's up, Kate?
I'm at home. I just wanted to tell you, so you don't freak out. And this sucks.
Yeah, I know it sucks. Just watch a movie, okay? Good girl.
I called Mom. I'm going over there tomorrow.
-You're not going over there, Kate. -I already called her.
You're not going, okay? This is my weekend.
It's my weekend too, and I'm not gonna sit around here, just waiting around.
-Do me a favor. Listen... -I'm going to Mom's.
I love you. I don't have time for this right now.
-What do you have time for, Dad? -I'm very busy, Kate.
-You and Mom are divorcing-- -Just hang up on him. -Who is that? -[Kate] What? I can't hear--
-Who is that? -[Kate] What? I can't hear-- Who is that? Hey, who is that?
Who is that? Hey, who is that? Is that Ryan? Kate?
-We're just gonna watch a movie... -Put him on the phone.
-No. -Put him on the phone!
-[Ryan] Hang up! -Kate!
Son of a bitchin' kid.
[recording] Hey, what's up? This is Katie.
Leave me a message, and I'll call you right back. Bye.
Katherine, call your father back. Now. Call me back.
[mutters] Pick up the fucking--
-Clay? -What is going on?
This whole thing's gone fucking sideways, Clay.
-Wait, what? What? What do you mean? -This fucking job, it's fucked, man.
This guy's jerking me around. He made me leave the other two guys at the bank.
-What? Who? -The fucking handler guy.
-No, who got left behind? -The other guys.
-He made me leave them, bro. -You left them?
-Where are they now? -I don't know.
Holy shit, those were my guys. You shouldn't have done that.
-Why didn't you call me? -I did fucking call--
I did call you, Clay. I called you 50 fucking times. Look at your phone, man.
-Why didn't you have your phone on? -I have, but--
This guy told me to fucking leave 'em when they came out of the bank. -He said they're gonna shoot me, Clay. -Shoot you?
-He said they're gonna shoot me, Clay. -Shoot you?
-Yes. -He said they were gonna shoot you?
-But you made the drop though, right? -Did I make the drop? You fucking idiot.
-You didn't tell me where the drop was! -It's eight o'clock. It's almost 8:00.
-I know. -It's 7:55.
I know what time it is, Clay! Shut the fuck up!
-Where's the drop? -I don't know.
He's supposed to give you the spot. Man, I knew this fucking guy was gonna pull something.
Oh, you knew he was gonna pull something, but you don't know him? What's his name?
I don't know him. He's a Jefferson Avenue guy. That's all I know.
Yeah, I know fucking Jeff Ave, motherfucker! He's a West End guy.
-What is his name? -I don't know who he is.
-I only talked to him on the phone. -You should be attached to his hip.
I just set it up for him. I don't-- I don't wanna know the guy any more than--
-oh, fuck me. -Yeah, fuck you.
-Fuck me. I know. Fuck me. -Fuck you, Clay. Listen to me.
Listen to me. Are you setting me up, bro?
No, I am not setting you up. He's gonna call you with the drop.
Yeah, since when?
-I... -Since when?
You don't know the fucking ball from the bounce.
You're either too dumb and you don't know it,
or you're fucking dumber and you're trying to fucking set me up!
-Those weren't-- -Why didn't you use your crew?
Those weren't even my guys. He'll call you with the drop, okay?
-You make the drop, we finish this. -Motherfucker. You motherfucker.
You let him put two strangers in the car.
-Well... I didn't know that. -How long we go back? How long we go back? They were gonna fucking clip me, Clay.
How long we go back? They were gonna fucking clip me, Clay.
-You didn't know that? -No.
You didn't know that? I got a call from somebody else. Did you know that?
-What? Who? -Oh, "What? Who?" I don't know.
Somebody fucking texted me that you and I were dead.
You and I were dead. You got any ideas, Clay?
-I don't know. -Say you don't know again, motherfucker!
Say you don't know again! I'm gonna fucking tattoo it on your forehead.
You borrowed that money. You went into the hole with them, not me.
-You chill. -[yells] Don't you tell me to chill!
I gotta get this fucking car off the road, you hear me?
I haven't been out a year, not a fucking year!
-You gotta fix this, Clay! -I'm gonna fix this. I'm gonna fix this. He'll call you. You make the drop, and we're done.
He'll call you. You make the drop, and we're done. Fuck off!
-Fuck! -[ringtone playing]
Put him on the phone. Put him on the phone, Kate.
Dad, I'm not gonna talk to you when you're this angry.
I'm not angry. I just wanna talk to Ryan. It's okay. Put him on the phone.
[Ryan] No. I don't want to talk to him.
-Hello? -Ryan.
Yeah?
I wanna talk to you about being in my home alone with my daughter.
-You listening? -Yeah.
Okay. Our family is going through a bit of a rough patch at the moment,
and what Katie really needs right now, Ryan,
what she really needs is a good friend.
I love my daughter more than my own life, do you understand?
More than my life. More than your life.
-Are we clear? -Yeah.
-You're sure? -Yeah, yeah. -We're just gonna watch a movie. -You're gonna watch a movie?
-We're just gonna watch a movie. -You're gonna watch a movie? That sounds great. And you'll be home by nine o'clock, yeah?
-Yeah. -Good. Put Kate back on.
-[Kate] Yeah. -Yeah.
So, he's gonna watch a movie with you, and then he's gonna leave at nine o'clock.
Okay.
-Do I need to say anything else? -No.
-You sure? Problem solved? -Yes.
Okay. See you in a little bit.
Yeah? [handler] Take the delivery road to the left.
You know, I'm really sick of your fucking music.
-How far up? -Go all the way up around the ramp.
-Straight around? -Just keep going straight.
Take the right, go all the way down.
Where do you want me to make this drop?
[handler] You're not making a drop. You're gonna make an exchange.
Fuck that. Just tell me where to drop the money. I'm not making an exchange.
Go to the bottom. There's a loading dock.
Hello?
Fuck.
[mutters] Fuck, fuck.
[man] He's here.
Fuck.
[man] Hey, get ready.
[man] Come back here!
Fuck you, you asshole!
[snaps] Fuck!
[Wheelman] Exchange? Exchange, my ass. It was a fucking buy.
-A buy? -A drug buy, Clay.
With who?
I don't know, Clay. Who gives a shit? I'm not running drugs.
Oh, listen, man, I think-- let's not rock the boat on this thing.
-Did you know about this? -No.
-You set this up? -No, I didn't do that.
-I'm trying to get us out of this. -I think you're full of shit, Clay.
[Clay sighs] Okay, then you tell me what you want me to do.
What I want? You set it up.
If you won't do the buy, I don't know what to do.
Find someone to do the buy, Clay.
-Someone else? -Yeah, someone else. Call around.
Find another jerk-off driver to make this buy.
-Get me out of it. -All right, okay. Shit, I'll do it.
-Good. -No, I mean, I'll-- okay, I'll do it.
Yeah, make the calls.
-No, I'm gonna do the buy. -You are?
Just bring me the fucking car. I'll do it. You're out.
-I'm not bringing you this car. -You're not?
-No, I'm not. -Well, you put me in a spot here, man.
-Oh, I put you in a spot? -Yeah.
What do you want me to tell him? Do you know what's gonna happen if I call them?
-Tell me who he is. Tell me who he is. -What? No. Why do you care who he is?
Why do I care? 'Cause it's my ass on the line with the West End guys.
I owe 'em money. It's my ass!
I wanna know who I'm fucking dealing with. I want a name, I want a number.
-I'll tell him you stole the money. -You what?
I'll tell him that you're not taking any of my calls,
and you're running out with his money.
I'll cut your fucking nuts off, I swear to God. You hear me, Clay?
Clay? Clay!
Fucking asshole!
[recording] Yo, it's Cheetah. Leave a message.
Cheetah! Hey, man, I got myself into a situation.
I need some help. Call me back.
Come on.
-Who are you, bitch? - [driver] Fuck it.
[rider] Fuck's your problem? Roll down the fuckin' window, you pussy!
Yeah, right. Come on, motherfucker!
I'm gonna fuck you up, stupid little bitch-ass--
-Oh, fuck! Get the fuck out--! -[tires screech]
[mutters] Motherfuck.
Clay?
You're gonna do this thing, or I'm gonna call him now and tell him you stole it.
Listen to me. This is what's gonna fucking happen.
You're gonna tell me who this fucking asshole is,
and I'm gonna call him and tell him I'm gonna drop this money.
-And we're fucking done. -No.
-You hear me? -You are fucking this up.
-And I'm not gonna be a part of this. -[line beeping] Fuck. Don't hang up. Don't fucking hang up!
Fuck. Don't hang up. Don't fucking hang up! What? Are you shitting--?
-This you? -[handler] What are you doing?
Don't say a fucking word. Okay?
I'm gonna drop this money and I'm gonna tell you where it is.
If you fucking call me again, you text me, I'll burn every fucking dollar.
-[ringtone playing] -Shit.
-Clay? Clay! -[horn honking] Yeah, I'm here.
I can't negotiate, I can't fucking threaten them,
I can't fix this unless I know who I'm dealing with.
-I told you, I don't know him. -You are totally full of bullshit.
-[Clay moans] -Okay? I need to know who booked this fucking job.
All you do is sit in a fucking bar and make phone calls.
Make a fucking phone call and get me a name, you hear me?
-I can't. -Clay, I'm gonna call you back.
-I am not calling him. -Five minutes!
-I can't talk to you right now. -You better not hang--
[recording] Yo, it's Cheetah. Leave a message. -[mutters] Fuck. -[signal beeps]
Cheetah! Hey, man, I need you to meet me in the garage down in Grand, all right?
I got myself into a situation. I need some help, brother man. Call me back.
[Jessica on recording] I knew you wouldn't answer.
Kate's calling me, telling me you're not home.
She's there alone with Ryan? That kid is 17.
You left your 13-year-old daughter alone with her 17-year-old boyfriend,
and you know that I caught them...
[recording continues] She said you told her that she can't come with me
because you want to... for some custody thing?
-You're such an asshole. -[horn honking]
I'm giving you a chance with Katie, but I am not-- I can't--
I'm taking Kate. I just-- I--
Come on, motherfucker. Wanna play?
-[faint ringing] -I'm not calling anyone.
-[faint ringing] -I'm not calling anyone. What do you mean you're fucking not calling anyone?
I'm in a fucking bucketload of shit here, which means you're in a bucketload of shit.
I'm in a fucking tunnel with all the money,
and I'm not fucking going anywhere until you give me some fucking answers.
[Clay] Go back to Chandler fucking Station and do what you get paid to do.
-Wait, what? What did you just say? -What?
How do you know I went to Chandler Station?
What?
I never told you the drop was at Chandler Station.
How did you know I went to Chandler Station?
-What the fuck are you talking about? -Where are you?
Where are you, you motherfucker? You at the bar?
-Go fuck yourself. -[line beeps] Oh, you son of a bitch. You piece of shit. Fuck.
Oh, you son of a bitch. You piece of shit. Fuck.
-Yo, it's Cheetah. Leave a message. -[signal beeps]
Fucking me up, Cheetah.
I got a car. I gotta get off the road. Call me back. Call me fucking back.
Fuck.
-[recording] Yo, it's Cheetah-- -[recording stops]
-Yeah? -[handler] What was it I fucking told you?
-What? -You don't listen to me,
-you're gonna get hurt. -[line beeps]
Stop it! Stop-- ugh!
-[Clay] My arm, you fucking-- -Motherfucker, you fucked me!
-[Clay] What the fuck--? -You fucked me!
What the fuck--
-Hey! -Get fucking back!
It's not your fucking problem.
-[man] Are you all right? -[Wheelman] Shut up. Shut up!
Get back! Don't be a fucking tough guy!
-[Clay] You broke my arm! -Wrong man. Wrong person.
Wrong fucking night.
No, don't!
-Who booked the fucking job? -[Clay] I don't know.
-Fuck you! Fuck you, you fuck! -[Wheelman] Who booked the fucking job?
[Wheelman] Get back!
You broke my arm! No!
-Get in the car! -No!
Get in the-- [grunts]
[man] Let him go, asshole!
You fucking fucked me, fucker!
Get back!
[man] Pull that trigger right now, if you're going to.
-[Wheelman] What? -[man] Hey, hey.
-What? -[Clay] Help me!
-[man] I'm all right. -[Wheelman] Shut up!
-Shut up. -You broke my fucking arm.
Look what you fucking did!
-[Clay] Oh, Jesus! -"Oh, Jesus" is right.
-[ringtone playing] -What did you do, huh? Who is this? Who's calling me?
Who is fucking calling me?
-Who is it? -Get off--!
Hey, you fucking threaten me one more time,
I swear to God, I'm gonna Molotov this car and the fucking money, you hear me?
I'll fucking fry the whole thing, I swear to God.
-Hello? -You hijacked my fucking bank job.
You know I'm gonna kill you and that double-crossing cunt next to you, right?
-Oh, shit. Who's this? -You two are fucking dead.
-[Clay] Oh, shit! -[gunfire ringing]
Fuck!
Who was that? Don't fuck with me. Who was that?
[Clay] It's the West End guy.
-Who was that? -That's the West End guy.
That's the West End guy? That's the fucking handler?
Who's the fucking "jazz guy"? Did you fuck--
did you fucking set this up? You motherfucker!
[Clay] Just go!
If that guy shooting as us is the West End guy, who the fuck have I been talking to all night?
-He's just-- -Clay.
-I don't-- -Who is the "jazz guy"?
-He's a new Philly guy. -You fucking with the Philly mob?
He offered me a lot of money.
-For what? To fuck me? -No, not to fuck you.
He offered me a lot of money, man.
-And you broke my arm, you asshole! -Offered you a lot of money for what?
I know how this went down, Clay.
You told him you got a fucking stooge,
who owes the West End guys for a bunch of fucking favors
for taking care of his family while he was in the joint.
-Does that sound about right, Clay? -Jesus, you got a low opinion of people.
-Don't fuck-- -Hey, fuck! I'm fucking around.
-Don't fuck around. Don't fuck around. -Okay, okay. All right.
I wanna know who the West End guy is. Okay? You hear me?
Don't fucking say anything-- anything, except for that!
Clay...
I can't go to the Philly guy empty-handed.
They paid me a lot of money to make the West End look weak.
You fucked us up, man. You know what you did?
You start a fucking mo-- I started a mob war.
I was trying to get ahead, man. I was trying to get ahead for a change.
Now, I'm worse off than when I started.
-I don't know. -Okay.
-All right. -Stupid.
[Wheelman] I'm gonna square it with them.
I'm gonna get straight with the West End guys
because they took care of me when I was inside, okay?
So, I'm gonna take care of business.
And then you're gonna get the fuck out of town.
-Where? Where am I gonna-- -I don't care.
-What's gonna happen to me? -I don't know.
-They're gonna kill me. -Hopefully, they won't.
-They're gonna kill me! -Hopefully, they won't!
-They're gonna fucking kill me! -Hopefully, they won't kill you, Clay!
-Aw, fuck, my dick is cold. -What?
-My dick and my balls are cold! -Stop.
-Is that bad? -Stop. Shut up.
-They're cold. -Don't say another word.
Do not talk, okay?
I'm gonna take $20,000 off the top, and I'm gonna give it to you.
I'm gonna give it to you, I'm gonna square it with them, and you're gonna get the fuck out of my sight.
And I don't wanna see you.
You didn't switch out the cars yet?
Does it look like I switched out the cars, Clay?
I really need that fucking money.
-I'm sorry. -Clay! Clay! Don't--
Fuck! Clay!
Fuck!
Motherfuck!
Jesus Christ.
[Wheelman] What did you do? What did you do?
[Clay, slurring] I'm fucked. I'm fucked.
Oh... oh, boy, I'm fucked up.
-Clay? -I'm fucked--
-Clay? -I'm fucked.
-Fuck. -[Clay grunting]
-Help-- help me. -Fuck.
-Help me. -I can't, Clay. I can't.
Who is he? What's his name? What's the West End guy's name, Clay? Tell me.
-I wanna go. -Tell me, Clay.
-I wanna get out. -Clay?
-[babbling] -You don't have time. Clay, listen to me.
-[panting] -Clay?
Clay?
Clay?
[mutters] Fuck. Fuck.
Yeah.
[Philly] When I said I knew you, I meant I know everything about you.
I know you're not a pro driver.
You're a weekend racer. You're an amateur.
I know you did three years for that warehouse fire.
And I know you've borrowed a lot of money for your family during that time.
You're just a regular guy.
You do what you have to do for your family, right?
And I know you got a wife and daughter. Do you hear what I'm saying to you?
[recording] Hey, what's up? This is Katie. Leave me a message, and I'll call you--
Come on, Katie. Come on, Katie, pick up.
Kate?
Kate...?
-You okay? -No.
What's wrong?
What's wrong?
Dad, I talked to Mom, and this sucks.
Okay, yeah, I know. I know it sucks. I know it sucks, but listen--
-Dad, Mom is gonna take custody. -She's not--
-She said you blew it. -I didn't--
-You did. -Look, she's not taking--
she can't do that. Your mom just gets like this, okay?
You left me alone, and you knew she would do this.
II know. know. I screwed up, all right? I'm gonna fix it. I'm gonna make it right.
All right? But I need you to do something for me.
I need you to leave the house, okay?
-What do you mean? -I want you-- I want Ryan--
tell Ryan to drive you up to Uncle Rich's house.
-What? -Have him take you to Uncle Rich's house.
Dad, Ryan went home. What's going on?
-You're home alone? -Ryan left like you said.
All right, I need you to do something for me.
-What? -Can you hear me?
-I want you to take my car somewhere. -Your car?
Yes. I want you to get in the Porsche and go to the garage on Grand Street.
-You know where that is? -I'm not allowed to drive on the road.
You are now, sweetheart, okay?
It's just like driving on the track. You've done it 50 times.
Only go a little bit slower, You take your time.
Dad, what's going on? Why are you being like this?
Listen to me, do you remember where the garage is on Grant?
-Next to the shoe store? You remember? -Yeah.
Okay, I want you to take my car there. I want you to go to level five.
-Okay. -Okay?
-Oh, Dad. -Yeah?
-Where are the keys? -The keys?
Oh, shit, I got the keys. I got the keys.
You have them? What am I supposed to do?
Uh, check the drawer by the sink.
The left drawer by the sink that's all the pens and the stuff and--
-The shit drawer? -The shit drawer.
Check the shit drawer, baby. Go, hurry up.
-I'm gonna stay on the phone. Go. -Okay.
-Come on, come on. -[Kate] Okay.
Kate?
-Kate? -Yeah, I don't see them, Dad.
Shit. All right, listen, just leave the house.
I want you to walk out of the house and go--
-Found them. -You got them? -Yeah. -You sure it's the right keys?
-Yeah. -You sure it's the right keys?
-Yeah. -Okay, listen to me. Get in the car. You take your time. You can do this.
You take your time. You can do this.
-Okay. -All right? And I'll meet you there.
-Bye, Dad. -All right, babe, bye.
-[Jessica] What do you want? -Hey, listen, I need you to do me a favor
-and go meet Katie somewhere. -For what?
Just-- can you just go meet her, please--? -No. Why? Are you in the car? -Jess.
-No. Why? Are you in the car? -Jess.
-Jess-- -Oh, my God. My God.
Of course, you're in the car. Of course, you're driving.
-It's not paying for your family anymore. -Jess--
You're addicted. You can't not do it. You know you could just work at a garage
You're addicted. You can't not do it. You know you could just work at a garage and be home with your daughter right now.
-Jess? -But, no. No, that's not for you...
Hey, Jess, hey, Jess-- hey, Jess, could you shut the fuck up for a second?
This is serious! I need you to fucking do me a favor!
I need you to go get her. All right? I need you to leave the house. Can you do that?
-Fuck you! I can't get her tonight. -Jess.
Okay? I can't get her tonight. I'll pick her up tomorrow.
-And I left you a message. -I know.
-What do you mean "no"? -No, I said "I know." I said I know.
I got the message. Just do me a favor, and just go pick her up, please.
Yeah, I'm, I'm-- hang on!
What? No hang on. Don't go anywhere. Jess, don't go anywhere.
-Could you just hang on, please? -Don't--
Jess, I need you to leave the house.
-I gotta get the door. Hang on. -Just go now.
Jess?
Fuck. Jess!
-Pick up the phone! Son of a-- -[Jess screaming]
-[man] Get her to the car! -Stop it! No!
-Jess! -[man] Shut your fucking mouth!
-Jess! Fuck! -[beeping]
[Philly] You bring me that money now, yes?
I know you're not the guy.
You bring me that money or you can listen to get her fucked!
I'll fuck her myself.
-I'll fuck her. -Okay.
Where are you?
-I'm at 32nd. -Where?
-Near the tracks. Let me talk to her. -Stop the car right there.
Stop the car right there! I'll have someone there in two minutes.
-[line beeping] -This will all be over--
-I didn't hijack your job. -[West End] You motherfucker.
Do you still have the money?
Do you?
-Yeah, I do. -There's going to be fucking blood
if that money doesn't come back to me right now.
He's got my wife.
He's got my wife. You hear me?
-All right, I could help. -How?
You start by bringing me the money.
-You bring me that money, or I will-- -Or what?
Or what? What? What are you gonna do? You're gonna kill me, huh? No shit.
No shit, you're gonna kill me. I'd fucking kill me.
[West End] He has no use for her-- other than to leverage you. That's it.
You have the money. You're in control.
If you let him get the upper hand, he'll kill you both.
-You have the money. -I got a daughter!
You fucking hear me? I got a daughter.
He could fucking grab her, too. He snatches her. That's what scares me.
What the fuck scares you? The money? Is that what it's about? The money?
[West End] It's not my money. It's not my money. I guaranteed this job for someone else. This is bigger than $200,000.
I guaranteed this job for someone else. This is bigger than $200,000.
Clay put this job together. That shithead Clay sold it.
This Philly motherfucker targeted this job.
He's taking a bite out of me in front of every motherfucker in town.
What do you think happens if you give that cocksucker the money?
What happens to my people? To my family?
This situation is a weapon.
Me and mine will be eaten alive. That's what scares me.
You're in over your head, and I'm the guy that could pull you out.
What's it gonna be?
-I still owe on the three-year stretch. -Yes.
-You owe us a three-year stretch. -Yeah.
-And I can take care of that, too. -Don't fucking "magic show" me here, man.
Why should I trust you?
-How old is she? -Who?
Your daughter, how old?
-She's 13. -Thirteen.
You help me save my family, and I'll help you save yours.
-What are you gonna do? -What do you think I'm gonna do? I'm gonna kill him.
Okay. Okay.
I got him on the other line. What do I do? He's got my wife. He's got my wife.
[West End] All right.
You set up an exchange. Just set it up and tell me where. That's it.
-Do not fuck me. -Don't fuck you?
You got the money, pal. You got the money.
Okay.
Okay.
You still there?
-[Philly] What the fuck--? -Let me talk to her.
-You wanna talk to her? -Let me fucking talk to her!
You wanna talk to her alive, you pull the fucking car over!
And tell me where the fuck you are.
You wanna listen to me fuck your wife and cut her head off?
-You're not gonna do shit. -You have zero bargaining chips.
Zero! I'll fucking kill this bitch. Do you wanna see your wife again?
Ex-wife, fuckface. And I got your money, asshole.
Come on.
Come on.
[mutters] Fuck.
You're gonna calm the fuck down, huh? Say it.
[Philly] I'm calm.
You want this money? You better stop fucking around.
First, I'm gonna talk to her.
Then, I'm gonna tell you where we're gonna make the exchange. Understand me?
You fucking lay a hand on her, I'll fucking torch the money.
You fuck with me, I'll torch the money.
You pull any bullshit when I pull up, I will torch the money. Put her on.
-[Jessica] Hello? -Jess, it's me. You okay?
-Yeah, but I don't-- -Don't talk. Don't talk.
Listen to me, I don't want you to talk. Don't say anything. Don't say a word.
He's not gonna touch you. All right? I got what he wants,
I'm gonna give it to him. It's gonna be fine, but I don't want you to talk, I don't want you to cry.
Don't give him a reason to even look at you. You understand me?
You just do what he tells you to do, okay?
-Okay. -Okay, baby. Put him back on.
Don't say anything. Just put him back on.
[Philly] So?
Top of Fillmore and 19th, 15 minutes.
-Don't fucking be late. -If you don't give me--
-Fillmore and 19th. -[West End] How long?
-Fifteen minutes. Top floor. -Good. Keep him there.
-How you gonna do it? -You just keep him there.
-He's got my wife. What are you gonna do? -Keep him there until I get there.
You pull this off, you bring him to me, we're square.
Your three years are paid. You just keep him there.
Fuck.
-Fuck. -There you are, motherfucker!
Katie?
Kate.
-I couldn't get a signal. -It's okay. You all right?
-Yep. -Good girl.
-Why did you let me drive in your car? -Let's go. Good job.
-Dad-- -Give me the keys. Look at this.
Nice parking.
So, Dad, what's--
[Wheelman] All right. Okay.
[Wheelman] How was the drive?
Fine, I guess. I worked on my downshifting the whole way.
-Good girl. -[engine starts]
-Heel-toe? -No, just regular.
Dad, what's going on?
-Dad, you're bleeding. -I'm fine. It's not mine.
-Why are you bleeding? -I'm fine. It's okay.
You're not okay. We have to get you to the hospital.
Sweetie, it looks worse than it is. I'm fine. I'm not going to the hospital. Sit back. Sit back. Kate... listen to me.
Sit back. Sit back. Kate... listen to me.
We have to take these two bags somewhere right now, okay? Do you understand that?
-Dad, what's in those bags? -Just something I have to deliver.
Money. Is it money?
It's money, yeah.
You're gonna go away again.
-You're gonna go to prison again. -I'm not going away.
I'm not going anywhere, okay? We just have to deliver this money. That's it.
I don't believe you.
Just tell them to come get it. Just tell them that you can leave it here.
-Just tell them that they have to. -Kate! Kate!
-Just tell them that they have to. -Kate! Kate! -Just tell them that you're waiting! -Kate! Stop it! I can't! Look at me!
-Just tell them that you're waiting! -Kate! Stop it! I can't! Look at me!
I can't.
-Everything's gonna be fine, Kate. -You don't know that. I can tell.
-Everything will be fine. -Just shut up, Dad.
If you're just gonna keep telling me bullshit, shut the fuck up.
What do I tell you every time this car touches the track?
[Kate] "You're on the clock."
What are the two most important things when you're in this car?
-Speed and timing. -Speed... and timing.
This is about both.
I want you to take this car, I want you to go to your Uncle Rich's. I don't want you to stop. I don't want you to talk to anybody.
I don't want you to stop. I don't want you to talk to anybody. Don't tell anybody where you are.
-Do you understand me? -What?
-Do you understand me? -No.
Listen, here's my wallet.
I want it back. Yeah?
There's money in here and my ATM card.
-What's the pin? -[sobs] My birthday.
Your birthday. Go ahead.
You tell your Uncle Rich your mom's gonna call you, and she will.
Tell him to keep his promise, okay?
-[sobs] Daddy, I can't-- -Kate, Kate...
Breathe, baby. It's okay.
-[whispers] Daddy, I can't. -No, Kate.
It's okay, baby.
Want you to promise me something, okay?
You don't ever do anything
that doesn't feel right to you, in your gut, inside.
Not for a boy, not for anyone, okay? Promise me.
-Daddy... -Promise me.
-I promise. -You promise?
Slide over.
Okay, find your position.
Where's your position?
Good. Nine and three?
Deep breath.
You're okay.
Daddy, I'm not okay.
-I'm gonna freak out. I can't do it. -No, no. You're not gonna freak out.
You know why? 'Cause you're my daughter.
You're my daughter. You've done it a hundred times.
What do I always tell you, baby?
-"Find the line." -Find the line.
[mutters] Fuck this.
[Wheelman] There it is. That's all it is. I wanna see her. Let her go.
[Philly] Give me my money. You'll get your wife.
[Wheelman] Let her out of the car. I wanna fucking see her.
[Philly] Give me the bag. Step away from the bag.
[Wheelman] I want to see her.
-[Kate] No! -Let her out of the fucking car...
[Philly] Don't fuck me over. Don't fuck me! I'll fucking kill you.
[Jessica] What are you doing? Let's go, come on!
-Mom? -[Jessica] Let's get out of here!
-Let's go! -Mom.
[Philly] Watch what you do. Watch what you fucking do!
[Wheelman] Fuck you!
-[Wheelman] Come on, let's go, let's go! -[Philly] Go! Get him! Get him!
[Wheelman] Down the stairs!
Daddy! Dad!
Dad, where's Mom? Where's Mom?
-Dad, where's Mom? -Go, go, go, go!
-Where's Mom? -Drive! She's safe. She's safe.
Good. Control.
-Where's Mom? -She's fine. She's safe.
They're after us. Just drive.
Drive.
Good. Go. Take a right. Take a right.
-Dad, what is going on? -Shift!
-See him? You see him? No? -No.
-Dad, I don't see him. -Okay, right. Right.
Stop.
-Stop? -Stop!
Go.
Dad, you are gonna have to tell me what is going on.
Belt. We're going for a ride, Kate. Put your belt on.
Come on.
-[tires screeching] -Sit back!
Phone! Pocket! Phone!
-Okay. -Answer it!
Answer it, and put it to my ear. Put it to my ear.
-Hello? -[West End] You're not here.
-Hello? -I'm at Fillmore and 19th.
-Where the fuck are you? What? -Stay there. Stay there. He's on my tail.
-What the fuck are you doing? -I'm bringing him to you.
Lower level, ground floor. You hear me?
-[Kate] Evergreen. -Evergreen.
-[Kate] The entrance is on Evergreen. -On Evergreen, lower level, ground floor.
-Stay there! -[gunfire blasts] -Down! Down! -[Kate] Dad!
What--?
-[Kate] Dad! -Get down!
Down! Down!
Down.
Get the door!
-Get him out. -All right.
Fucker.
[Philly] Fuck you!
Give me the bags. I'll be right back. I'll be right back. You stay down, okay?
Stay down.
Good girl, good girl. Stay down, stay down.
You okay? You good?
-Yeah. -Yeah?
Where's Mom? Dad, why was she here?
Mommy's okay, baby. We're gonna go see her right now.
-We're gonna meet her? -We're gonna meet her.
Dad, I'm sorry I didn't leave you like you said.
I'm glad you didn't leave me like I said. [chuckles]
America is a nation of believers
that is being led by a group of censors, critics and cynics.
All of the people telling you, "You can't have the country you want,"
are the same people that wouldn't stand...
I mean, they said, "Trump doesn't have a chance of being here tonight."
Oh, we love defeating those people, don't we? Don't we love defeating them?
To all Americans tonight, I make this promise.
We will make America safe again.
We will make America strong again.
And we will make America great again!
God bless you and good night!
I love you.
My name is Roger Stone, and I'm an agent provocateur.
Stone's Rules are things that I have learned in life
Stone's Rules are things that I have learned in life that I seek to pass on to others
who may want to be in the same business that I'm in.
Or, actually, any business, 'cause they are fully applicable.
So, for example, a Stone's Rule:
"It is better to be infamous than never be famous at all."
Stone's Rule.
One man's dirty trick is another man's political, civic action.
Everything I do, everything I've done, has been legal.
But politics ain't beanbag and losers don't legislate.
The truth will be suppressed no longer.
Lock her up!
Lock her up!
Well, Roger has a really rough reputation.
They talk about "dirty trickster" and lots of other things,
but I've known him for a long time, and he's actually a quality guy.
He's a nice guy.
Just a few descriptions of you here:
"a state-of-the-art sleazeball," "a little rat,"
"an actor who likes to assume poses."
I believe in winning.
I believe in doing whatever is necessary to win, short of breaking the law.
In the world of political consulting, there are a number of rogues.
But there's... [chuckles] There's really nobody quite like Roger Stone.
Roger is the sinister Forrest Gump of American politics.
He's not just this simpleminded guy, but this Machiavellian, almost crazy guy
who shows up at every key moment in recent American history.
Roger has a great understanding of the media. He understands politics and he understands politicians.
And he always likes to take on somebody that at least has a good chance of winning,
and sometimes it doesn't work out.
He's had some people that I said, "What are you doing with these people?" But, you know... But he loves it and he loves the game.
But, you know... But he loves it and he loves the game.
He has fun with it, and he's very good at it.
[Jeffrey Toobin] In many respects, Roger Stone created Donald Trump as a political figure.
There is no doubt that in tone, in affect, in profile,
the Trump candidacy was a pure Roger Stone production.
When Mexico sends its people... They're bringing drugs,
they're bringing crime, they're rapists.
And some, I assume, are good people.
[Tucker Carlson] Whereas the rest of us looked at Trump
and saw someone who was impossibly vulgar and impolite,
Roger looked at him and said, "You know, this is someone who voters might like."
Roger looked at him and said, "You know, this is someone who voters might like." I mean, Roger actually gets democracy in a way,
I mean, Roger actually gets democracy in a way, I think most people who cover politics don't.
You know, democracy is the process of appealing to the majority.
My name's Donald Trump, and I'm the largest real estate developer in New York.
I own buildings all over the place, model agencies, the Miss Universe pageant.
But it wasn't always so easy.
About 13 years ago, I was billions of dollars in debt.
But I fought back and I won, big league.
Now my company is bigger than it ever was and I'm having more fun than I ever had.
Hello, everybody.
[Roger Stone] Fifteen seasons of The Apprentice not only makes him a smooth television performer,
but think of the way he looked.
High-backed chair, perfectly lit, great makeup, great hair, decisive,
making decisions, running the show. He looks presidential.
Do you think voters, non-sophisticates,
make a difference between entertainment and politics?
Politics is show business for ugly people.
Roger always wanted me to run for president.
And over the years, every time a presidential race came up,
he always wanted me to run.
And I just didn't have interest at that time.
And nor was the country in trouble like it is today.
The American Dream is dead.
[woman] Bring it back!
But if I get elected president, I will bring it back.
Bigger and better and stronger than ever before.
-[girls singing] ♪ Cowardice ♪ -♪ Are you serious? ♪
-♪ Apologies for freedom ♪ -♪ I can't handle this! ♪
-♪ When freedom rings ♪ -♪ Answer the call! ♪
-♪ On your feet ♪ -♪ Stand up tall! ♪
-♪ Freedom's on our shoulders ♪ -♪ USA! ♪
♪ Enemies of freedom ♪
♪ Face the music ♪
♪ Come on, boys Take 'em down! ♪
♪ President Donald Trump knows how To make America great ♪
♪ Deal from strength Or get crushed every time ♪
It's really great to be here in Cleveland, 2016.
A lot of beautiful people here.
1776!
-♪ Over here ♪ -♪ USA! ♪
-♪ Over there ♪ -♪ USA! ♪
♪ O, say, can you see It's not so easy ♪
♪ But we have to stand up tall And answer freedom's call ♪
I have never been more excited about a presidential campaign.
I have never seen a grassroots uprising.
This is not the Republicans versus the Democrats.
[man] That's right.
This is the elites of the Republican and Democratic Party
who have driven this country into the ditch
versus Donald J. Trump and the rest of America.
I thank you for your support.
We are on the verge of making America great again. Thank you.
-Take a picture with my son? -[Stone] Yes. How are ya?
And if you decide to run for president in, like, 2039, look me up.
-I will. -[man laughs]
[Stone] I understand how fame works. You know, the four stages of fame.
It's like, "Who is Roger Stone?"
"Get me Roger Stone."
"Get me a Roger Stone type."
"Who is Roger Stone?"
A mock election was planned in my elementary school.
And I was for John F. Kennedy because my parents were Catholic,
and I thought, although they were Republicans, they had a certain sympathy for Kennedy.
But also because Kennedy's hair was so much better than Nixon's hair.
And, therefore, I went to the cafeteria and as each kid would go through the cafeteria line with their tray,
I would tell them, "You know, Nixon has proposed having school on Saturdays."
Well, then the mock election was held, and to the surprise of the local newspaper,
Democrat John Kennedy swept this mock election.
For the first time ever, I understood the value of disinformation.
Of course, I've never practiced it since then.
We Republicans seek a government that attends to its inherent responsibilities,
encouraging a free and a competitive economy,
and enforcing law and order.
[Stone] My first Republican National Convention was 1964.
I was 12 years old.
The woman who lived next door to me, she gave me a copy of a book,
The Conscience of a Conservative by Barry Goldwater.
And I devoured this book in, you know, a day.
It was at that moment that I knew what I wanted to do.
I no longer wanted to be an actor. I now wanted to be in politics.
Little did I know how similar they are.
I became a zealot. I had a Goldwater sticker on my bicycle.
I became a zealot. I had a Goldwater sticker on my bicycle. I wore Goldwater buttons.
I wore a Goldwater button two weeks after the election was over. That's how defiant I was.
[Ann] I met Roger in college.
He was really a total prodigy, in terms of his political ability.
He was talking grown men back home into running for office, electing them.
And then we would sit in our dorm room
and they would call Roger for political advice as to how they should vote on key issues.
His mother once said, "You're not a Catholic.
Your religion is the Republican Party and your god is Richard Nixon."
Bart Porter asked him, you know, if he'd be interested in coming to the Nixon campaign,
so Roger took time off of school to go join the campaign.
[reporter] This is central headquarters for the Re-Elect Nixon Campaign.
The White House.
But for the sake of appearances,
the Re-Elect Nixon headquarters, in name, is one block up Pennsylvania Avenue.
[Stone] The Committee to Re-Elect the President was unlike any campaign that I'd been in.
It didn't look like your typical political headquarters.
It had a very hushed, corporate quality to it.
Porter called me into his office and said, "We want you to go to New Hampshire,
and we want you to give this contribution to Pete McCloskey,
who's running for the Republican nomination,
challenging Nixon from the left,
in the name of the Young Socialist Alliance."
I got an enormous mason jar,
filled it with pennies and nickels and dimes and quarters.
I brought it to the McCloskey headquarters.
I said, "Hi, I'm from the Young Socialist Alliance.
I wanna donate this, and I need a receipt."
They were so dumb, they gave me one.
The idea was to give the receipt to the Manchester Union Leader,
the largest newspaper in New Hampshire, as a way of discrediting McCloskey.
A perfect example of a dirty trick that had no purpose and no effect,
but the Nixon people thought it was great.
I never heard another word about it...
until an investigator from the Senate Watergate Committee knocked on my door.
[reporter 1] We have a mystery story out of Washington. Five people have been arrested and charged
with breaking into the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee in the middle of the night.
[reporter 2] The Democratic National Committee is located in the Watergate office building.
I welcome this kind of examination,
because people have got to know whether or not their president is a crook.
Well, I'm not a crook.
I've earned everything I've got.
I was the youngest person to go to the Watergate grand jury.
During the Senate Watergate Committee hearings, this enormous chart was put up,
in which everyone who received money from this secret fund was put on the wall.
And it said, "Gordon Liddy, McCord, Segretti."
And then way down at the bottom, it said "Stone."
I paid $100 to Mr. Roger Stone on one occasion.
My parents called me on the phone. They were mortified.
I thought it was pretty cool.
To leave office before my term is completed
is abhorrent to every instinct in my body.
But as president, I must put the interests of America first.
Therefore, I shall resign the presidency effective at noon tomorrow.
[Stone] I was a Watergate figure at 19 years old.
I mean, at the time, I was scared shitless.
It was very hard to find work.
We used to have these buttons that said "hire a Watergate vet."
So this is the Batcave. This is "the Factory," as we call it.
This is where I tape my Saturday radio shows.
It is also the repository
of probably the world's largest collection of Nixon memorabilia.
The 1962 campaign for governor.
Uh, a rally that I actually attended.
A head shot poster of the day.
This is protesting Nixon's historic trip to China.
Here you have the first and second generation Nixon bongs.
This is among my most prized possessions.
[reporter] Roger Stone does occasional political chores for Nixon.
One such chore, to organize dinners of journalists at Nixon's New Jersey home.
[Stone] I was the assigned liaison between the Reagan campaign
and former President Nixon, transmitting memos back and forth.
It was not until his post-presidency that we became close friends.
He had been through a lot, obviously, but I think he was just as resilient as ever.
His greatest single quality is resilience.
And that's the purpose of my tattoo. It's not an ideological statement.
It's a reminder that in life, when you get knocked down,
you have to get up off the canvas and keep pushing, get back in the game.
That's the story of Nixon.
A man is not finished when he is defeated. He's only finished when he quits.
[Toobin] The Nixon tattoo is really all you need to know about Roger.
Because he thinks Nixon's approach to politics,
the toughness, the win-at-all-costs mentality,
that's what Roger reflects.
Delegates to the Young Republicans Convention in Memphis
have chosen as their chairman a conservative with a Watergate past.
[reporter] Watergate dominated this convention because the Republican Party's important youth arm
was about to be taken over by Roger Stone, a 25-year-old political operative
who was deeply involved in the 1972 Nixon "dirty tricks" campaign.
[Paul Manafort] They embellished what was a 20-year-old kid's role into being the mastermind of Watergate.
Roger saw the opportunity to build a reputation
off of being viewed as that politically significant.
[reporter] Opponents of Stone contend that his election is part of a move by conservative activists
to take over the Republican Party.
[Manafort] When we elected Roger,
we moved the Republican Party in a more ideological direction.
Up until that point, it was straddling the old Republican establishment
and the new conservative movement that was started in Barry Goldwater days.
We built on that,
and I think when Roger was elected chairman of the Young Republicans,
you know, that was the piece that finalized everything.
For many years, the Republican Party
was associated with this sort of good guy, Eisenhower earnestness.
What happened with the new right was there was a new generation of people who said,
"You know what? We're gonna fight dirty and we're gonna win."
Among the revolutionary changes in American politics the past few years
has been the rise of the political action committees, called PACs, fund-raising groups for special interests.
called PACs, fund-raising groups for special interests.
[reporter] NCPAC, the National Conservative Political Action Committee based in Virginia,
rich in money, and dedicated to doing in the nation's liberals.
Even, its director Terry Dolan says, if that means using the politics of fear.
I don't think there's anything wrong with fear.
[Stone] I met Terry Dolan when we were teenage Republicans together in Connecticut.
[Ann] When we got married, Terry was our best man.
But more than that, he actually ended up moving in with us.
We used to refer to him as "the child."
It was on our living room floor that NCPAC was born.
NCPAC, the National Conservative Political Action Committee,
is transformative in the sense that we really pioneered
negative campaign advertising in massive doses to win elections.
Up to that time, it really hadn't been done.
I came to Washington for the Wall Street Journal
in, um, the very end of 1983.
And Roger was already kind of a legend by then, kind of a dark legend, [chuckles]
because of the negative ads that he and NCPAC had run.
So people thought of him as kind of a wizard behind the scenes.
I remember meeting him on the street and thinking, "Wow, that's Roger Stone."
[announcer on TV] Birch Bayh telling us he's fighting inflation.
The price tag on that baloney is $46 billion.
Because if Bayh wins, you lose.
The story of NCPAC is that after Watergate,
there were campaign finance reforms
to try to control the corruption in spending on politics.
So what the Republicans did was,
they figured out a way around the new rules.
[Manafort] The focus of NCPAC was to use all the tools of a campaign,
but instead of having a candidate, to use it through a PAC.
[Stone] We could only give a Senate campaign, in a direct financial transfer of $5,000.
But the loophole was we could advertise on behalf of a candidate,
without their cooperation or coordination, an unlimited amount.
And that's why NCPAC was successful.
[reporter] It was a political disaster for Senate Democrats. They not only lost control of the Senate,
they lost some of the biggest names in the Democratic Party
and many of their most prominent liberals.
Regrettably, NCPAC consistently plays to the dark side of human nature.
Its stock-in-trade is the half-truth, the innuendo, the distortion.
[man on TV] Power is what PACs are about.
The power to raise and give money to political candidates,
who, in turn, will at least give them a hearing and at best do their bidding.
Roger was one of the inventors of the modern political system.
The PACs, the super PACs.
The PACs, the super PACs. That is where Roger has made his influence,
That is where Roger has made his influence, and it continues to be felt.
I'm convinced that at some point, with these types of programs,
you could elect Mickey Mouse to the House or the Senate.
[announcer on TV] Ronald Reagan for president. He'll make America great again.
[Stone] The district we're in is Congressman Gary Lee.
After this, we go to the 32nd District, where those guys just got knocked off the ballot.
-You're good at this. -[laughs]
You must have had some experience.
[Stone] 1980, Ronald Reagan defeats Jimmy Carter.
I was running three northeastern states for Reagan,
as a regional political director.
I think most observers didn't recognize
Reagan's enormous appeal to blue-collar Catholics and working-class people.
And, of course, he carried all three states and the presidency.
And I'm proud of the fact that I played some tiny, infinitesimal role
in saving the United States by electing Ronald Reagan.
The Reagan voter is a blue-collar,
working-class, middle education, middle-income-level voter.
Roger identified the Reagan Democrat.
He actually wrote up the strategy
for reaching out specifically to the blue-collar and the Catholic vote.
He tends to be a second, third-generation Catholic... Italian, Irish, Polish.
[Ann] The Reagan Democrat was a critical part
of bringing over states that normally would not vote Republican.
Let us pledge to each other, with this great lady looking on,
that we can, and so help us God,
we will, make America great again.
-[crowd cheering] -Thank you very much.
Roger is unique, in my experience, because he actually embraces infamy.
He doesn't worry that you think he's a sleazeball. He wants you to think he's a sleazeball.
What a cheap, low-class way to operate.
[man] Why do you embrace the role of dirty trickster?
Well, I'm stuck with it now.
It's gonna be in the first paragraph of my New York Times obit,
so I might as well go with the flow.
The only thing I can think of worse than being talked about...
is not being talked about.
-[crowd cheering and chanting] -♪ Used to be a fan of Bill ♪ ♪ Blue dresses And spunk was spilled ♪
Now, Bill and Hillary Clinton would steal a hot stove. -[crowd laughing] -These people are career criminals,
-[crowd laughing] -These people are career criminals,
and thus far, the mainstream media has helped conceal their crimes.
But the truth will be suppressed no longer.
[chanting] Lock her up!
[Stone and crowd chanting] Lock her up!
Lock her up! Lock her up!
[Stone] The slash-and-burn politics of today are what's required to get noticed.
God bless you. I'll be happy to sign books for those patriots who are smart enough to buy them.
If you can't communicate with people,
you can't get them to adhere to the idea you are trying to educate them about.
You have to be outrageous to get noticed.
"For Roger, with fond memories and the highest regard and affection
for his good work in the 1980 campaign. From a good friend, Roy Cohn."
[commentator] This is a man that everybody is going to enjoy meeting.
He's Roy M. Cohn,
who was confidential assistant to the United States Attorney General.
[reporter 1] In 1953, Roy Cohn became chief counsel to Senator Joe McCarthy's
communist-hunting investigations committee.
[reporter 2] His reign of televised intimidation in the 1950s
has become synonymous with demagoguery, fearmongering and character assassination.
[reporter 3] Cohn went on to private practice and made millions.
He became one of the most politically connected lawyers in the nation.
[reporter 4] The last two decades of his career were marred
by allegations of fraud, blackmail and perjury.
When I was assigned New York for Ronald Reagan in 1979,
for the 1980 election,
shortly thereafter I was invited to a dinner party
being thrown by a Washington socialite...
who, in all honesty, I was trying to lay...
and Cohn was present.
So I made my way up to him.
I introduced myself. I said, "Mr. Cohn, I'm... I'm Roger Stone."
He looked at me and said,
"Are you the son or the grandson of the Roger Stone
who's running the Reagan campaign here in New York?"
I said, "No, that's me."
He turns to his partner Tom Bolan. He says, "Reagan's in trouble."
[Wayne Barrett] I wrote a lot about Roy Cohn.
I started hearing about Roger from people who were close to Roy.
Roy Cohn is the single most evil person I have ever covered.
If that's a magnet for you as a young man, it says you're soulless before you start.
Well, my attitude regarding those who criticize me
for being friends with Roy Cohn or Richard Nixon is... fuck 'em.
[Ann] Roger's relationship with Cohn was, in part, mentor.
Cohn had a slice of history,
and a circle of friends that would not have necessarily been part of our orbit.
It's how we met Trump.
Donald Trump is probably one of the most important names in America today.
He is, as I say, the closest thing to a genius I've ever met in my life.
On "Special Segment" tonight, Mike Jensen profiles a man
who, at the age of 39,
is not content with being New York City's latest real estate billionaire.
Donald Trump has also ventured into gambling and professional football
and says he could negotiate a nuclear disarmament treaty with the Soviet Union.
[man on TV] Donald Trump, a tough man in a tough city.
Steve, you're gonna have to start pushing these people now,
'cause it's getting a little ridiculous, as far as I'm concerned.
[man on TV] At the age of 39, Donald Trump has become
one of America's best known and most successful builders.
And, not surprisingly, he has an ego almost as big as his empire.
I had a lawyer, who was a very good lawyer, tough lawyer, named Roy Cohn.
He introduced me, at one point, to Roger Stone.
Roy thought Roger was a very tough guy.
Roy knew some very tough guys, I will tell you that,
but Roy always felt that Roger was not only tough, but a smart guy and very political.
[man on TV] Trump is an expert at getting what he wants,
particularly from politicians.
He's gotten tax abatements and other concessions.
Politicians have gotten campaign contributions. Big ones.
[Manafort] Roger's the first one who introduced us to Donald,
and Donald was one of our clients at Black, Manafort, Stone
in the early '80s and was a client of ours for a long time.
[Toobin] In the early days of the Reagan administration,
Roger was so prominent and so successful,
he could have become a sort of great man of the party.
He was a real insider.
He was a political consultant, a lobbyist,
someone who was right in the thick of things.
Paul Manafort, Roger Stone and I had worked together through the Reagan campaign.
When the Reagan campaign got short of cash,
and decided to start a political consulting firm.
Paul Manafort came in one day and said,
"You know, we ought to start a lobbying firm,
because I'm getting a lot of calls from people who know we all work for Reagan
and know the people who are gonna be in the Reagan administration,
and they want lobbying."
So we did.
-Good to see you. -This is Paul Manafort.
[Manafort] What we were doing was trying to use our relationships that we had built up,
first through the Young Republicans and then through NCPAC,
and to create a business that would focus on political consulting.
[Jane Mayer] Lobbying had been considered kind of a sleazy business,
but Roger Stone unabashedly came out and said,
"I'm gonna make a pile of money off this  and no apologies."
Black, Manafort & Stone was the shit.
It was the biggest, most powerful lobbying operation in Washington.
We did things that nobody else had ever done.
♪ Money for nothin' ♪
[Mayer] There were a lot of gray people
in gray suits and tan raincoats in Washington.
They were all sort of interchangeable.
And then you had Roger Stone.
And when he went to fancy parties, he wore black patent leather slippers.
He was a whole new level of, sort of, splash and show business and money and glitz.
♪ Money for nothin' ♪
[interviewer] Joining us now, Roger Stone,
who belongs to one of Washington's most successful consulting firms.
The argument, I gather, seems to be that you helped elect 'em,
and now you're helping to tell them what to do,
and this really isn't what the Founding Fathers had in mind.
First of all, the term "influence shops" is really not accurate at all.
I think that what we provide for our clients,
be them foreign countries or corporations or individuals,
is a superior understanding of how Washington works.
[Toobin] Before Black, Manafort & Stone,
it was considered somewhat distasteful for campaign types
to immediately go into lobbying,
trying to influence the people they just elected.
What Black, Manafort & Stone said was, "We're unapologetic.
We got this guy elected, and now we're going to make money
by charging for access to his administration."
There's been a massive expansion of the lobbying sector in Washington.
Some of them are so powerful and successful that we don't question it.
We just assume it's a fact of American political life.
[Toobin] Black, Manafort & Stone, in their brazenness,
really created the modern sleazeball lobbyist.
[Harry Siegel] They elected people.
As soon as those people were in office, they lobbied them.
And so they crossed a line that hadn't been crossed.
Washington's been worse for it ever since.
[reporter] Paul Manafort of Black, Manafort, Stone & Kelly
stands with his partners at the receiving end
of $31 million in subsidies.
I will stipulate for the purpose of today that you could characterize this as influence peddling.
[congressman] Thank you.
I will bring new people to Washington.
People that come there to serve and not to profit.
We will have the highest possible ethical standards.
We're gonna bring in the best.
[reporter] The best?
Charles Black is a senior advisor to Bush.
So are Paul Manafort and Roger Stone.
And Lee Atwater is George Bush's campaign manager.
All these men are partners in a firm that, in 1985,
received $3.4 million in foreign lobbying fees.
Black, Manafort & Stone saw a business opportunity
in being the torturers' lobby.
in being the torturers' lobby. In representing the most distasteful dictators,
In representing the most distasteful dictators,
Mobutu, Marcos, UNITA in Angola.
They did not care about being acceptable in the salons of Georgetown.
They cared about making money.
You know, one man's freedom fighter is another man's terrorist.
[reporter] There are reports of gross human rights abuses in rebel-held areas,
including the burning alive of Savimbi's political opponents.
The Cold War was going on.
You know, I'll take criticism if they give it to Reagan
and the majority of Congress who put the funding in.
[reporter] Tens of thousands of men have been killed or wounded in the fighting.
The US missiles will escalate the war even to a more deadly level.
When people think of Washington corruption,
they think of organizations like Black, Manafort & Stone,
that shook down dictators, took all their money,
and then tried to take America's government
and make them serve the dictators' interest.
You know, it is the swamp.
I'm proud of the job I did at Black, Manafort & Stone, because I made a lot of money,
and I can't think of anything I did that was either illegal or immoral.
You play by the rules as they're written.
When they change the rules, you change the way you play the game.
[Toobin] When you talk to Roger about his business and morality,
he sees morality as a synonym for weakness.
That's something that he's always going to have contempt for.
[Stone] Those who say I have no soul, those who say I have no principles,
are losers. Those are bitter losers.
Everything I have done, everything I have worked for,
is to propel ideas and a political philosophy that I want to see dominant in government.
Donald Trump has now elevated the issues that I believe in.
Anti-elitism, that was first identified by Richard Nixon...
To you, the great silent majority...
[Stone] ...mined by Ronald Reagan...
Government is not the solution to our problem,
government is the problem.
[Stone] ...and now Donald Trump.
The silent majority is back, and we're gonna take the country back.
The image they have of politics is a dirty image of politics.
It's that, um, everybody's for sale.
When Trump talks about, you know,
"I gave my money 'cause I thought I might need a favor later."
Everyone's for sale.
Nobody's there to serve the public good.
It's an anti-government view and an anti-political view and, um...
very lacking in idealism, very cynical.
There's no nobility in it.
The money in politics? Well, I think there should be, frankly, more transparency.
Because I see a guy like Jeb Bush with $114 million,
which is now higher, and nobody even knows who put the money in.
And they all control him like a little puppet, okay? I know half of the people.
I don't know who they are because I can't find it out.
But as soon as I do, I will know most of 'em.
They're friends of mine. I used to be there.
I used to be the king at that, okay?
[Barrett] In 1981, Roger runs Tom Kean's campaign for governor in New Jersey.
Donald is just really getting into the throes of casino life in Atlantic City,
so they came together on a common agenda.
[Matt Labash] Trump gave him a lot of casino business.
Roger and Trump, peas in a pod, you know?
Trump is someone, through the '80s, who took enormous risks and succeeded.
Roger represented Donald Trump from Donald Trump's earliest days.
Then the Ethics Commission made a finding against Donald Trump and him
for all of the illegal things that they did.
When Roger wants something, he pursues it with vigor.
Now politics, sort of.
New York developer Donald Trump caused a stir this morning when he took out an ad in some major newspapers
charging American foreign policy lacks backbone.
Immediately the question came up, is he running for something?
In 1987, I suggested that Trump should explore a bid for the presidency.
This sounds like political presidential talk to me,
and I know that people have talked to you about if you wanna run. Would you ever?
Probably not, but I do get tired of seeing what's happening with this country. And if it got so bad, I would never wanna rule it out totally,
And if it got so bad, I would never wanna rule it out totally,
because I really am tired of seeing what's happening with this country.
I was like a jockey looking for a horse. You can't win the race if you don't have a horse,
and he is a prime piece of political horseflesh in my view.
I interceded with the Portsmouth, New Hampshire Chamber of Commerce
to arrange a lunch.
The helicopter landing was as big a news as his speech.
This is kind of the first time I saw the power of Trump.
The public interest in Trump was palpable.
It was, like, electric.
And he lit the place on fire.
I'm not here today because I'm running for the presidency.
I'm here because I'm personally tired
of seeing this great country of ours being ripped off.
Roger always wanted me to run for president.
And in 1988, he wanted me to run, but I had no interest.
I did a book called The Art of the Deal,
which was the number one best-seller of the year. It was a tremendous book.
Roger wanted me to run so badly, and I just didn't want to do it.
What I want is, I want extreme competence.
I want strength and extreme competence.
[Michael Caputo] In 1988, when I was at the New Orleans convention,
Roger Stone had me setting up chairs in a reception room
for an executive out of New York who I didn't really know, Donald Trump.
Even though his candidate for president, Jack Kemp, had the possibility of being selected as vice president,
he was squiring Donald Trump around the convention.
You have said that if you ran for president, you'd win.
I'd have a very good chance. I like to win. When I do something, I like to win.
I like to do well, and I think I probably would have a pretty good chance.
Roger saw the value of the outsider image.
He saw the value of somebody
who brought business experience to the political process.
He saw something that nobody else saw back in the early '80s.
Once he'd had conversations with Trump about that, Trump started to take seriously that maybe he should run.
[Donald Trump] So long. Thanks a lot, folks.
Florida is a great place to live.
It's a sunny place for shady people.
Welcome to Casa del Stone.
This is, uh, where I live with my wife, three cats and three dogs.
And my 91-year-old mother.
Tough as nails.
If you ever saw The Sopranos and you're familiar with Tony's mother,
that's my mother.
These guys are liberal filmmakers. They cannot be trusted.
Hi.
Come here, Sambo.
Sammy is, uh... He's not well.
He's been losing weight. And we've been taking him back and forth to the vet.
Come here, baby. Give me a kiss.
Give me a kiss. No kiss? No kiss?
Okay. [kisses]
This is my wife.
We met working on the Reagan campaign,
where she was employed as a photographer for the campaign
and I was working for Reagan as a regional political director.
This is the designated smoking area.
Kind of a contemplative garden.
[man] What do you contemplate out here?
Political strategy and destroying my enemies.
[announcer] And now may I introduce Mr. Roger Stone to all of you.
Bill Clinton is a Bill Cosby-style sexual predator,
who has preyed on probably hundreds, but at least 27, individual women.
If Bill Cosby is going to be held responsible for his actions,
then Bill Clinton should be held responsible for his actions.
Bill and Hillary Clinton are the penicillin-resistant syphilis
-of the American body politic. -[crowd laughing]
-...everything you're doing. -Thank you very much. You, too.
-Hey, sir. -How ya doing?
-Pleasure. -Good to see you.
This is my daughter and my granddaughter.
Hello. How are you?
I'm excellent.
-Thanks for coming. -Of course. Of course.
I was going to point out that...
[Danielle Stevens] There's a side of him that they don't see. The side we get to see. The family side, the loving side.
That persona of the dirty trickster is not what we see at home.
-We do see the trickster. [laughs] -[Stevens] Yeah.
Hold up your lens up here just a little higher.
Little higher. Little higher. Little higher.
Yeah, that's it. Okay!
[Nydia Stone] I was actually terrified of him the first time I met him.
I walked in his office, and I told him later that he looked like a Nazi Hitler Youth.
Nydia taught me how to smile and how to laugh.
Uh, and she's made me a better person. And I'm not complete without her.
[man] You're a Buddhist. Do you think that you centered Roger?
-Yes. -[Stone] She certainly has tried.
And I think, in some cases, she has been effective in doing so.
-[Nydia] Centered and censored. -[chuckles]
And sometimes I need both.
And with Nydia, I got instant family.
I got children. I got grandchildren.
I got a mother-in-law.
All things that I didn't have with my first wife. So I became a family man overnight.
He is a political strategist,
and he was just named the senior advisor to the Dole presidential campaign.
That should be an interesting job in the next few months. -Roger Stone! -[crowd cheering]
Roger...
I think we've got this figured out. We've got the slogan. "Bob Dole and Jack Kemp.
Together they offer the people 133 years of experience."
[crowd chanting] We want Bob! We want Bob!
[Dole] Thank you.
I can't imagine Roger being less excited to work with a presidential candidate
than he was with Bob Dole.
There are endless reasons to end the failed presidency of Bill Clinton.
But renewing the strength of America by restoring our social and moral order
has got to be somewhere near the top of that list.
The Dole-Kemp ticket was still counting on the evangelical vote
to defeat the Clintons.
In fact, if you look at the numbers back then, there was no way they could win unless they had that vote.
There's no doubt about it that many American people have lost their faith in government.
They see scandals almost on a daily basis.
They see ethical problems in the White House today.
[man] Do you think that's a legitimate issue? I do. I think the character of the president of the United States--
[man] Do you think this issue of marital fidelity, which you keep blaming on the media, is a legitimate issue?
This is something the voters are gonna wanna know about, yeah.
[Carlson] Roger could have become much more successful in conventional terms than he did.
And the reason he didn't is because he self-sabotaged.
[reporter] There was once a time
when political consultants were unknown and unseen.
No more.
Some of the tabloids say a Republican strategist, Roger Stone,
a partner in the prestigious Washington lobbying firm
of Davis, Manafort & Stone,
has been advertising for sex in swinger magazines along with his wife, Nydia.
He joins us from Washington. -Good to have you with us. -[Stone] Surely.
[reporter] Do I quote you correctly, that these ads were planted by someone else out to get you?
Yes, indeed, um...
An exhaustive investigation now indicates
that a domestic employee who I discharged for substance abuse...
on the second time that we learned that he had a drug problem,
is the perpetrator.
I'm deeply troubled by this notion of paid sources
who can say anything anonymously about you.
Provide no photographs, no proof, no documents.
You know, it's very hard.
My granddaughter, who's seven years old, said to my wife on Sunday,
"Why are they doing this to you, Grandma?"
It's a very hard question to answer.
[reporter] All right, appreciate you joining us. -Thanks for being here. -Glad to be here.
Roger Stone's first impulse was to deny.
In fact, if you look at Stone's Rules,
one of the rules is "deny, deny, deny, deny."
And he began by following his own rules.
'Cause it wasn't until much later that he admitted that everything was true.
The National Enquirer scandal,
which I'm not interested in rehashing at great length,
uh, probably required that I be even more of an outlaw.
I never ran for public office.
So how I conduct myself in my private life is nobody's business.
Did you hear about this? This guy, Roger Stone, top Republican advisor for Bob Dole,
has now been accused of going to sex clubs with his wife.
It's unbelievable, isn't it?
On the other hand, this gives you an idea how conservative the Dole campaign is.
This guy is in trouble for having sex with his wife!
That's how conservative those people are. Having...
[Labash] I think something snapped in him when the swinger scandal happened,
and he got chased out of Washington.
And he just said, "Eff this. What do I need this for anymore?"
What the '96 scandal meant is that Roger was never gonna be the out-front political genius.
The Karl Rove, the David Axelrod.
He was always gonna have to operate in the shadows.
If it weren't for 1996 and all the trouble he had,
maybe Roger wouldn't have embraced the kind of, you know,
darker side of his capacity, of his talents.
If there hadn't been a sex scandal in 1996, we might have had a President Al Gore.
They always return to the scene of the crime.
[crowd chanting] We want Bush!
We want Bush! We want Bush! We want Gore! We want Gore!
This is where the recount of the 2000 presidential contest took place.
This is where the recount ended.
This is where George W. Bush became president of the United States.
[reporter 1] Good grief. Look at that. Eleven.
[reporter 2] Eleven. That means automatic recount.
[William Daley] There is one state left to be decided,
and we believe when those votes are counted
and that process is complete, totally complete,
Al Gore will have won the Electoral College and the popular vote
and, therefore, is... will be the next president.
[reporter] The hand recount in Florida will continue, and the votes will count.
That, according to a unanimous ruling from Florida Supreme Court last night. Vice President Al Gore praised the decision, saying,
"It allows for a full and accurate counting of the ballots."
This is a street fight for the presidency of the United States.
I want our protestors down there in Palm Beach, Tallahassee, and Miami.
Call Roger Stone.
[Stone] In 2000, my old friend Jim Baker called me
and asked me to go to Miami-Dade to work on the recount.
I thought it was vitally important that we matched the Democrats
in terms of protesters who wanted an end to the 2000 presidential election.
This country was born on civil disobedience
and the will of the people standing up against the powerful!
There's nothing wrong with Clinton getting his dick sucked in the middle of the Oval Office, is there?
This is where the trailer was set up to communicate with our operatives inside the building.
[woman] He's got a ballot!
He stole a ballot!
[Stone] When some of my operatives reported that two democratic commissioners
were attempting to take a sheaf of ballots, remove them from the counting room,
which was being viewed by reporters and lawyers for both sides,
and take them to a small anteroom without windows,
this is what sparked the so-called Brooks Brothers Riot.
I said, "Flood the hall and don't let them shut that door."
[crowd chanting] Let us in! Let us in!
[Toobin] They started banging on the doors
and were intimidating the people who were counting the ballots to stop.
And they did stop.
So Al Gore could not gain any votes.
That was critical in making sure that the results in Florida,
certifying George Bush as the winner, stood.
[crowd chanting] Let us in! Let us in!
Most people, they want to underplay anything they did wrong or improper.
And with Roger, what you have to worry about
is that he's lying to make himself worse than he actually was.
The history of the 2000 recount was essentially written by Roger Stone,
and he wrote himself in, in a pretty big role.
He was sitting next to Washington as they crossed the Delaware.
He was with Eisenhower on D-Day.
He was cradling Bobby Kennedy in the kitchen of the Ambassador Hotel.
[laughing] I mean, he really sort of put himself there.
I mean, Roger was there.
But let me ask you,
is it more brilliant and impressive to influence world events
or to stand on the periphery of world events
and yet get recorded as having influenced world events?
Maybe the latter.
Yeah, I think he played a role in the Brooks Brothers Riot.
I don't dispute that.
But I'm the only one to approach
what I think is the best story I've ever done on Roger.
I don't believe George W. Bush would have ever been president of the United States if it wasn't for Roger Stone.
if it wasn't for Roger Stone.
We're back now at 9:40 Eastern Time.
Ross Perot proves to be a major factor here tonight.
The Bush campaign headquarters in Houston,
they believe that Ross Perot may have cost them the presidency.
Thank you.
[Barrett] When George H. W. Bush loses in 1992, we all know the reason he lost.
It was the Reform Party and Ross Perot.
[Stone] The Reform Party was drawing a disproportionate number of votes
from the Republicans.
Bill Clinton, the great politician, he never got 50% in any election.
No Ross Perot, no Bill Clinton.
[Barrett] So when the son is running in 2000,
and the Reform Party is still on the ballot
in every state in the United States,
then they're very concerned
about who is going to wind up the Reform Party candidate for president.
Today, I am ending my lifelong membership in the Republican Party
and I'm declaring my intention to seek the nomination of the Reform Party
for the presidency of the United States of America.
[Barrett] Roger Stone comes up with the brilliant idea
of getting Pat Buchanan out of the Republican line
and to get him to run for the Reform Party.
[Stone] Yes, I... I encourage him to run,
but I also, yeah, I have an interest in the Reform Party imploding at that point.
[reporter] Just when Buchanan hoped to have the political stage to himself,
he was trumped.
Businessman Donald Trump announcing today,
he too will switch from the GOP to the Reform Party
and may even seek its presidential nomination.
And if he does, he says, it will not be just a publicity stunt
for his empire of office buildings, casinos and hotels.
He will run to win, he says, despite his reputation.
When Donald Trump announces that he's going to run, it completely throws everything into chaos.
George, should the American people take the Reform Party seriously?
Well, not if Donald Trump is their leader.
[reporter] Donald Trump is being supported by a fellow named Roger Stone,
who is a longtime political activist who had worked for Richard Nixon and Ronald Reagan.
It looks to me like Pat Buchanan is going to get in the water,
and a Trump-Buchanan race, it'd be a great race.
It's unexpected. No one sees it coming.
And to make matters worse, Trump doesn't exactly run for the nomination
so much as he runs against Pat Buchanan.
He's a Hitler lover. I guess he's an anti-Semite.
He doesn't like the blacks. He doesn't like the gays.
[reporter] What's wrong with Pat Buchanan?
Well, it's pretty obvious, isn't it?
He's obviously in love with Adolf Hitler in some form,
and I don't think the Reform Party should be taking losers.
Have a good time.
Bear in mind that the arch-strategist of the Trump campaign is Roger Stone.
Do you think that Roger is up to something here that deserves closer inspection?
Well, Roger's always been a little arch. Uh, I don't know that he's the arch-strategist.
Do you think that Trump is just a stalking horse for, say, George Bush?
[Timothy Stanley] Stone goes overnight from backing Buchanan to backing Trump,
it's very hard not to conclude that Stone had intended all along
to undermine Buchanan's candidacy
in order to make the Reform nomination completely untenable,
and thus give Bush a clearer shot at the presidency.
Political observers this morning are still wondering
what Donald Trump really wants. Is he running for president,
or just getting his name and face on television?
[Barrett] He was in the game enough to get a tease to the national news media,
and then out of the game.
I'm ashamed of this party!
[reporter] Political pros say that to have any impact on the race for the White House,
the Reform Party will have to shed its image as a circus. [man] We will not have mob rule in this party.
[man] We will not have mob rule in this party.
[Barrett] Now, what Roger freely admitted to me, is that he had known since the Nixon days
that Pat Buchanan had an illegitimate child.
Nominating somebody for the president of the United States
whose name will appear on the ballot in all 50 states,
who you are blackmailing at the same time so that he won't really run.
That's not just a dirty trick.
That's a transformation of democracy.
[Stone] The allegation that I spread the rumor that Pat Buchanan had an illegitimate child,
this all comes from Wayne Barrett.
Wayne Barrett is full of shit. It's false.
[Stanley] Pat Buchanan got less than half a percent of the vote.
That was humiliating.
Humiliating for him, for the Reform Party,
and arguably it put the entire third party campaign effort back by decades.
After the Reform Party cost the Republicans the White House in '92,
again in '96...
Yeah, I may have played some role in derailing them as a party.
Roger Stone knows how to do the triple bank shot.
The one that nobody else can do.
And it ends up changing the face of a campaign.
Changing the whole tenor of a debate.
Shifting the entire paradigm.
People today say that they like doing dirty tricks. They're pikers compared to Roger.
Roger has raised it to an absolute art form.
Sometimes you confuse me with the Stephen Colbert character
that I sometimes play called Roger Stone.
Don't... don't confuse him with the real Roger Stone.
-[man] What's the difference? -You'll have to sort that out.
[Steve Malzberg] Joining me now, Roger Stone,
political consultant and strategist. And great to see you.
There is a Hillary-Nixon connection that's very historic and important.
In 1964, Hillary Clinton was fired from the House Nixon Impeachment Committee
for leaking and lying.
Now, she held this grudge for 40 years.
Hillary repeatedly blocking Nixon from meeting with Clinton.
Finally, Clinton overrules her.
Nixon and Clinton meet, and they hit it off.
And Nixon met Hillary. I said, "Mr. President, what did you think?"
-He said, "She's cold. Cold as ice." -[chuckles]
[man] You're doing a documentary? Yes, this gentleman's doing a documentary.
He's one of those dangerous liberal, pinko, left-wing...
I hate people like you.
...homosexual, New York Times commies, but he's not a bad guy.
I know who they are.
Part of the reason we've always paid attention to Roger,
is he just looks different from everyone else.
You know, here we have a bodybuilding dandy.
A category, as far as I'm concerned, of one.
[announcer] Ladies and gentlemen, the Prince of Darkness, Roger J. Stone.
I am no longer a Republican. I joined the Libertarian Party.
[Toobin] I do think he is really alienated from the contemporary Republican Party.
He is, I think, spiritually, and now politically, a libertarian.
From the time that I was a Young Republican, I always had a libertarian streak.
I have always been pro-choice, pro-gay marriage, pro-marijuana.
As a Libertarian-Republican, I've always believed in gay marriage equality.
It's a civil right that equal access is guaranteed by the Constitution.
So, uh, I'm going to the Gay Pride parade today.
[woman] Let's welcome the Log Cabin Republicans!
The Log Cabin Republicans is the nation's only organization of Republicans
who support fairness, freedom and equality for gay and lesbian Americans.
He may have, as a result of his personal life,
some authentic beliefs at the age of 60 or 61.
I think he's internalized some of the gay rights agenda.
I think he's internalized some of the pro-drug agenda.
After the scandal devours him in 1996...
Since he's been rejected
and essentially thrown out of mainstream Republican politics,
he doesn't really have any choice but to figure out some third-party avenue.
And so he's looking for a reprise of 2000.
He's looking to see if he can find an angle where he can matter.
I've stayed away from Roger, personally, because he's so charming,
and you can see the ways in which he distorts the reporters who are around that charm.
At the same time, there's no way to avoid writing about him,
since he's been everywhere dark and ugly in our politics for many, many years.
In 2004, he's blamed for forging the documents
that destroyed Dan Rather's career and also helped re-elect President Bush.
[Terry McAuliffe] Roger Stone, an old dirty trickster from the Nixon days,
may have been involved in the production of these documents.
Look, politics is a rough-and-tumble business, but this is just a cheap shot.
[Siegel] That same year, Stone consulted for Al Sharpton's presidential run
that helped disrupt the Democratic primary process.
What Stone is in this for, is to use Sharpton as a disruptive force.
Some out there who follow presidential politics ascribe to you magical powers,
consider you the puppet master of the Sharpton campaign.
Look, Roger's always been an outlaw
and drawn to like-minded outlaws, like Sharpton, like Trump.
I don't think that's changed at all. What's changed is the country.
[Siegel] A few years later, he took credit for bringing down his nemesis, New York governor Eliot Spitzer.
I am deeply sorry that I did not live up to what was expected of me.
I am resigning from the office of governor.
[Siegel] He says he got a tip from a hooker in a sex club.
You had heard that the governor liked to wear his socks when he engaged in sexual activities?
I ask you, Dominic, what kind of guy does it with his socks on?
Sounds like Eliot Spitzer to me.
[Toobin] Roger understands the dark heart of the media
even better than we understand ourselves sometimes.
Because if he tells us that Eliot Spitzer was wearing black socks when he had sex,
he knew that that would be irresistible,
even if it had absolutely nothing to do with the truth at all.
[man] What do you say to people who say,
"It's awfully convenient that you happened to meet a prostitute
who was involved with Eliot Spitzer, given your animus toward Eliot Spitzer"?
Uh, there are skeptics everywhere.
Stone's so desperate to stay in the public eye,
that he peddles garbage conspiracy theories.
Like the supposed tape of Michelle Obama saying "whitey."
Roger, you can't just say that and say you have no proof for it and make a comment like that.
No, no, no. Let me finish.
[Siegel] And worse, the now infamous "birther" lie
that President Barack Obama is a secret Muslim
and a Manchurian president who wasn't really born in America.
[reporter] Donald Trump's one of the last people that was still touting that,
because Roger Stone and he were conspiring one day
and Roger giggled and rubbed his hands together and said,
"I can get the real birth certificate from Kenya."
And Trump, you know, went and believed it.
If he wasn't born in this country, -it's one of the great scams of all time. -[Bill O'Reilly] Absolutely.
-But I don't think that's the case. -Well, you don't...
There's something on that birth certificate that he doesn't like.
[Whoopi Goldberg] Oh, my God! -That's a terrible thing to say! -[all arguing]
Have you ever heard of any white president asked to be shown their birth certificate?
When you become a president of the United States of America,
you know that he is American.
I'm sorry, that's BS.
Why is Donald Trump so happy to throw himself into the "birther" pool?
Longtime Trump casino lobbyist and GOP advisor Roger Stone told Politico
"Personally, I think it is brilliant. It's base building.
It gives voice to a concern shared by many on the right."
Is there such a thing as coded appeals to racist sentiment? -There is such a thing. -[Stone] Of course, but I see none here.
-There is such a thing. -[Stone] Of course, but I see none here. Okay, as far as you're concerned.
The whole "birther" movement,
which was so crazy and so wrong and so racist,
that is the basis of Trump's political appeal.
[Trump] Ladies and gentlemen,
I am officially running...
...for president of the United States,
and we are going to make our country great again.
What's your precise role with Donald Trump?
-Are you a paid advisor? -Uh... I am now.
I'm just helping as a general communications strategist, I guess.
People get the impression that this is performance art for Donald Trump.
Is he serious about being president of the United States?
I will build a great, great wall on our southern border,
and I will have Mexico pay for that wall.
-[woman] Yes! -Mark my words.
Is this a president talking?
If there is one murder,
if there is one crime by someone who is not supposed to be in the country,
that's one crime too many.
I think Trump has identified a legitimate hot-button issue.
"Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown
of Muslims entering the United States
until our country's representatives can figure out what the hell is going on."
[Mayer] Roger Stone came to power with Nixon.
And Nixon, of course, had the Southern strategy,
which was all about milking people's racial resentments,
and in the case of Trump, anti-immigrant resentments.
Working up hate that would turn them against the government
and against the so-called elites who were in government.
The political system is a cesspool.
I've been a lobbyist.
I worked on the Senate side. I worked on the House side.
I saw how the sausage are made.
The whole process is deeply corrupt.
Trump is the only one who can clean it up.
[crowd chanting] Trump! Trump! Trump!
Trump! Trump! Trump!
We are going to Washington, DC,
and we are going to do what?
Drain the swamp.
It is so corrupt.
The best part is that he's just kicking the political establishment in the balls.
They are shitting a brick, because he's challenging the status quo.
All these other candidates are really for the status quo.
Roger's the ultimate insider, which makes him incredibly good at seeing
how to package someone he could sell as an outsider.
We are going to stand up for the American worker
like nobody has ever stood up for that worker before.
There is real upset over jobs, over globalization,
over people losing their sort of status and their incomes. You know, there are all kinds of answers to these questions,
You know, there are all kinds of answers to these questions,
but the answers that he's provided, for the most part,
are the answers that billionaires are interested in.
We're also going to eliminate job-killing regulations.
And lift the restrictions on the production of American energy,
including shale, oil, natural gas and beautiful, clean coal.
There's no grassroots movement
to gut the EPA and give people dirty water and dirty air.
The only people who are really caring about that are the polluting industries.
They say I have the most loyal people. Did you ever see that?
Where I could stand in the middle of Fifth Avenue and shoot somebody, and I wouldn't lose any voters, okay?
-It's, like, incredible. -[crowd laughing]
Roger understands that I've always gotten great ratings,
whether it's on The Apprentice or virtually any interview,
and that's why people want to interview me. And I think that's one of the things that's always fascinated Roger,
because, ultimately, it is all about the ratings
and it is all about people watching and the eyeballs.
Mr. Trump, you've called women you don't like "fat pigs,"
"dogs," "slobs," and "disgusting animals."
-Your Twitter account-- -Only Rosie O'Donnell.
Unlike every other candidate I have ever worked with,
he is unscripted, he is unrehearsed, he is unhandled.
Contrast that with Jeb Bush, who looks both bored and annoyed,
like, "Just... This is mine. Just anoint me and give it to me.
Father, Father, tell them it's my turn to be king."
[interviewer] Roger, before you go, uh, will you remain with the Donald now throughout the campaign?
I'll do whatever the Donald asks me to do.
[reporter] Good evening. It's been 48 hours since the first Republican presidential debate,
and a testy exchange between Donald Trump and moderator Megyn Kelly
has become a flash point in the campaign.
[Trump] You know, you could see there was blood coming out of her eyes, uh,
blood coming out of her wherever.
Now members of the Republican field are lining up to criticize him.
And word this evening that an advisor and a longtime friend of Trump's
has resigned from the campaign.
Trump says he fired him.
[Trump] Roger Stone's a nice guy, but I let him go because I really wasn't using him,
and he liked to get a lot of publicity for himself, which I didn't want.
He's real, he's genuine, and it's entertaining.
That's why he's doing so well.
-So why'd he fire you? -He didn't. I quit.
"Oh, you can't fire me. I quit!"
[Labash] Did he get fired or did he quit? I don't know.
He still hasn't admitted to me that he got fired, and I've tried numerous times.
"Bullshit, you got fired. Come on."
"No, no, no!"
Because Roger, you know, Roger the feminist, was really offended
about what Trump said about Megyn Kelly.
[Stone] I don't need the Trump campaign
[Stone] I don't need the Trump campaign to generate press coverage for myself,
and I can get in the tabloids any time I want.
But to say that you want me to work on your campaign, but you don't want me to talk to reporters
would be like saying to me, "I just don't want you to breathe air between now and November.
If you could just agree not to breathe any air or eat any food, everything will be fine."
Talking to reporters is what I do. That's my value.
Roger Stone and I don't agree on anything. [stammers] I don't...
Roger Stone and I don't agree on anything. [stammers] I don't... -He does not represent the Trump campaign. -Not what he says.
What Roger Stone says and what the truth are are two factually very different things.
[Michael Caputo] There's no question Lewandowski worked behind the scenes to get Roger thrown out of the campaign.
He is an expert at stabbing people in the back.
That guy's got an incredible capacity for treachery.
By the way, I spoke to a Polish language expert the other day.
I was unaware of the fact that Lewandowski, loosely translated,
means "cocksucker."
Well, Roger is a tough guy, and Roger will make enemies sometimes
that I always say, there's no reason for it.
[Toobin] Roger is older now,
and I think he sees the Trump campaign,
at once as his creation,
but also something that he's not allowed to participate in day to day.
And that, understandably, makes him sad.
[Stone] I have no interest in going back.
Although I strongly support Trump, we have managerial differences.
And, meanwhile, I'm just making the very best case for him in public that I can,
'cause I do think he has what it takes.
There's always this tension between the candidate and his consultant.
The candidate resents the credit the consultant gets for his words.
The consultant resents, you know, the fame and fortune the candidate gets
when he did all the work.
And Trump hated the fact that Stone was showing up on cable news
and that people were, you know, calling him Trump's brain.
So he fired him.
But it doesn't mean he stopped relying on him.
It seems to me there is more than meets the eye here
with Roger Stone parting company from the Trump campaign,
coming on my program and others and giving the big Trump pitch.
-You media types are so conspiratorial. -[laughs]
No. No, the Stone-Trump types, I think, are the conspiratorial.
Unlike...
Only two campaigns have a plausible path to the nomination.
Ours and Donald Trump's.
Nobody else has any mathematical possibility, whatsoever.
L-Y-I-N-apostrophe, lyin' Ted!
The Bible held high, he puts it down and then he lies.
Most of the time, I win the evangelical vote.
The evangelicals, the Christians, like Donald Trump.
I'm a straight shooter.
[reporter] After a crushing 13-point defeat in Wisconsin,
Trump turned a page, sidelining campaign manager Corey Lewandowski.
[Trump] He wasn't as effective for the last couple of months.
[reporter] News breaking that the GOP front-runner, by the way, has hired Paul Manafort to lead his campaign's convention efforts.
has hired Paul Manafort to lead his campaign's convention efforts.
Paul Manafort, former partner of mine, the single best vote counter
and convention strategist in the Republican Party.
When Paul Manafort got publicly named, I got a phone call that day.
And it was Roger on the other end of the line.
And you know what he sang? "Back in the Saddle Again."
I mean, Roger knows what Roger's doing.
[Manafort] Trump asked me to get involved because my reputation, among other things in politics,
is understanding of the convention process, the delegate process.
And most of the major successful big conventions
over the last 30 years, I've been intimately involved in.
[man] Did Roger recommend you for the job?
Roger was one of the two or three people who strongly recommended me, yes.
Even after Roger stopped being the principal political advisor to Trump,
he continued to be a very important advisor, and is to this day.
[interviewer] I want to start with Roger Stone, because you just launched a pro-Trump super PAC.
I thought, A, Donald Trump didn't like super PACs, B, I thought you quit or he fired you.
I'm not still sure what happened there. So what the heck is this all about, Roger?
Roger told me when I was very young, "Caputo," he says, [chuckles]
"The media is two things.
They're either evil or they're lazy, or they're both.
And if you understand that, you can do whatever you want."
Yeah, I live a pretty Machiavellian life, and I'm a skeptic.
I tend to believe the worst of people because I understand human nature.
Human nature has never changed.
That's why one of Stone's Rules is that hate
is a stronger motivator than love.
That's because it is.
[Ted Cruz] The National Enquirer published a story.
It is a story that quoted one source on the record, Roger Stone.
Let me be clear. This National Enquirer story is garbage.
And it is a smear that has come from Donald Trump and his henchmen.
[Stone] One of the keys to defeating an opponent is getting inside their head.
He incorrectly claims that I am the source of this story
regarding allegations that he has been adulterous.
[Cruz] And I would note that Mr. Stone is a man who has 50 years of dirty tricks behind him.
He's a man for whom a term was coined...
for copulating with a rodent.
I, of course, am quoted in this story, on the record,
saying that it would hurt him badly with his evangelical followers.
He has, as you know, attacked me on CNN...
Roger Stone has been Donald Trump's chief political advisor.
He planned and ran his presidential campaign.
...attacked me on Megyn Kelly.
His entire business has been dirty tricks, has been lies, has been personal smears.
These attacks on me by him and by his surrogates, I find this most satisfying.
I hope he's laying awake at night, worrying about what I'm going to do next.
[Mayer] He's a little bit like the Joker in Batman.
I mean, he gets a kick out of doing this.
To some extent, his pleasure [stammers] at burning down the house
is infectious for people.
And as a reporter, you call him up because you want the outrageous quote.
You want, you know... You want to hear what he's gonna say.
He's also very plugged-in. He's in the know.
He talks to a million people.
[Stone] I just got a call from this reporter who was calling to warn me
that Corey is now openly telling people he's got the goods on Manafort.
He is telling reporters that he has something on Manafort
that will blow him out of the campaign.
Yeah, we gotta take the little prick out.
I've been backgrounding reporters on what a total fucking disaster he's been.
And there's a story that just went up by Mike Isikoff at Yahoo
that dips into the whole Pakistani blah, blah, blah.
If you look at Manafort's long history of lobbying,
it is about as controversial as you can get.
You are as connected to the insider game of, what you've even said on record yourself,
"influence peddling," as anybody.
How can you be the antidote or anything to help Trump when you seem to go against his main message?
It depends on who you talk to
if I'm part of the establishment or part of the antiestablishment.
You better get rid of the super PACs
because they're causing a big problem with this country.
...and a lot of bad decisions that are being made
for the benefit of lobbyists and special interests.
Donald Trump tells America the system is rigged by the lobbyists and the super PAC money,
and who does he turn to as his top guys?
Roger Stone and Paul Manafort, who literally put up that rigging.
It's a crooked system, it's a system that's rigged,
and we're going to go back to the old way. It's called "You Vote and You Win."
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.
Donald Trump is riding a crest of voter anger
over 30 years of failed policies.
Voter anger explains the entire rise of Trump.
[Trump] I love the old days.
You know what they used to do to guys like that when they were in a place like this? They'd be carried out on a stretcher, folks.
Go fucking make my tortilla, motherfucker, and build that fucking wall for me!
Trump!
[crowd chanting] Trump! Trump! Trump!
Roger Stone, he's very smart about anger.
It's one of the things he understands best.
It's angry, white working-class voters whose resentments are being milked
to push an agenda that's useful to some of the richest people in the country.
These are hardly people who are in tune with the little guy's interests.
Um, but they understand how to manipulate the little guy's interests.
-[Malzberg] Can you hear me? -Yes, I can.
-[Malzberg] Can you hear me? -Yes, I can. -Can you hear me? -You're awesome.
Easy on the rape stuff. Let's not--
I'll do the best I can, but--
-I know, I know. Let's just, like... -Facts are facts, you know?
Do you believe it's too early for Trump to be bringing up Bill Clinton?
Should Trump save all of this
and wait until he's the nominee and he's running against her in the general?
No, I don't agree. I don't think he had any choice, 'cause he didn't bring this up.
Hillary Clinton brought it up when she attempted to play the victim card.
Does he know everything that's in your book? Are you giving him information at all?
Well, as you know, and it's been well documented,
she went after the women very, very strongly and very viciously,
according to the women and according to other sources.
Uh, a major book's been written about it. And it's a book that's a very well-respected book.
And it's a book that's a very well-respected book.
[Siegel] If you read Roger's blog, The Stone Zone, or follow him on Twitter,
it's like coming attractions for the attacks Donald Trump will be launching two weeks later.
It is Hillary who hires the heavy-handed private detectives
who break into these women's homes and ransack them,
who threaten their children, who kill their pets.
[Trump] She's married to a man who was the worst abuser of women in the history of politics.
And Hillary was an enabler, and she treated these women horribly.
Roger's, you know, relationship with Trump has been so interconnected
that it's hard to define what's Roger and what's Donald.
While it'll be clearly a Trump presidency, I think it's influenced by a Stone philosophy.
Shake-up at the Trump campaign as the campaign manager, Corey Lewandowski,
has now parted ways with the campaign.
[reporter] Paul Manafort taking the reins of the Trump campaign.
[Carlson] Well, let's see.
Is it a surprise that Paul Manafort [chuckling] wound up as the campaign chairman for Trump?
No, of course not. That was engineered by Roger
as a way to get Corey Lewandowski bounced out of the campaign.
It took a couple months, but they did it.
Roger has had a guiding hand in all of this.
Now, Trump is hard to guide.
He spits the bit out.
You know, he doesn't want to be driven at all.
But Roger's had as much influence on the campaign as anyone.
I think the campaign's being professionalized. Manafort's doing a phenomenal job.
I think he instills confidence in the campaign that they didn't have before.
[man] Did you give any reporters background on Lewandowski?
No.
[crowd chanting] Just stay silent!
Just stay silent! Just stay silent!
Just stay silent!
Just stay silent!
[reporter] How often do you talk to him?
Uh, from time to time.
Are you an informal advisor? Would you call yourself that? I'm just an FOT, Friend of Trump.
We need, in our country, law and order.
And if I'm elected president, that will happen.
[reporter] How real is the Dump Trump movement inside the Republican Party?
It's real because you've got, now, an attitude within the Republican Party, at the highest levels,
that this would be better for the party.
[reporter] Discussions about cutting Trump loose are focused on the Republican Convention.
Finding a way to free delegates for Trump to vote for someone else.
[Stone] I could see Donald Trump going to the convention in Cleveland
and having the nomination stolen from him.
So, I have set up a convention operation to try to ensure
that the Republican nomination is not stolen from Donald Trump.
[Trump] I'm representing a tremendous many, many millions of people.
I think you would have problems like you've never seen before.
I think bad things would happen. I think you'd have riots.
I have warned the public of what I believe is "the big steal."
We're going to have protests.
We will disclose the hotels and the room numbers
of those delegates who are directly involved in the steal.
[man] What about the issue of Donald Trump's hit man, Roger Stone,
threatening violence in Cleveland?
-Appropriate rhetoric? -I'm not giving him my hotel room.
-Okay, so do you sort of-- -[stammers]
Roger is not an official part of the campaign.
-Did he bring you in? Okay. -No. In fact, not at all.
Roger Stone threatened yesterday that he will send Donald Trump supporters
to the hotel rooms of any Republican delegate
who tries stealing the nomination from Trump this summer.
And those delegates will probably answer the door, too,
because they're expecting a prostitute.
-[audience laughing] -"Hey!"
-Caputo. -How are you, man?
-I'm good. -What's going on?
-Thank you. One more photo? -All right. Give 'em hell.
[man] Mr. Stone.
-How are you? -Thank you for your years of service.
Thank you very much. I appreciate it. That's very kind.
Make America great again.
I'm very sorry, but I am not gonna do this again.
[reporter] Delegates were denied an opportunity to vote on the rules.
Some saw it as their last chance to take the nomination from Trump.
[crowd chanting] We want Trump! We want Trump!
Trump is able to take over the Republican Party because the Republican Party is a bit like the Reform Party in 2000.
It's become a shell.
When it's something which is so out of touch with its own voters,
someone who steps in and communicates through social media
straight into television, with tremendous charisma,
is able to steal the party.
One half of the Trump story
is the story about how one man's ego led him to take over the Republican Party.
The other half of the story is how the Republicans became so hollow
that someone could do that to them.
The Trump campaign is the apotheosis of Roger Stone's politics.
-America! -[crowd cheering]
[Toobin] It's the part of the Republican Party that he represents:
toughness, anger, not being politically correct.
If you look at the crime rate in places like Chicago, it's out of control, yes.
Trump is the law and order candidate. He does speak to the silent majority.
I'm here with Roger Stone, the one and only.
Kind of a legend in political consulting, and, I think fair to say,
Kind of a legend in political consulting, and, I think fair to say, one of the, if not the, architect of the Trump movement.
You've had an interesting career, because you were in the kind of establishment political world
and you had a great career there.
Then you kind of went off into your Stone world for a while.
And now you're back. Now you're a big deal.
We're now in the age of Stone.
I mean, I feel like it's come all the way around,
back to the days when you and I and Terry Dolan
were plotting a takedown of the establishment.
Then we became the establishment. Then we became antiestablishment.
Roger is a lot more than a dirty tricks artist.
He kind of grabs that persona. It's like his pro wrestling name.
But in the real world of politics, he's a real strategist.
And I think whenever he kind of creates the dirty trickster thing for the media,
he's having fun, but he's slumming a little bit.
You're a rape denier! You're a rape denier!
America may be collapsing and breaking apart,
but Roger Stone is determined to enjoy it.
This for you, right here. It's "rape." It's Bill Clinton. It says "rape."
Okay, you know who does this kind of shirt? First of all, a sick guy.
Get him, Stone! Come on!
You know who's accused in court papers of being a rapist?
-Donald J. Trump! -[Stone] By Jane Doe.
By Jane and Tiffany Doe.
-Jane Doe. Who's Jane Doe? -[Uygur] It's in court papers.
-You're a sick man, Roger Stone. -No. You're a liar. Stone-cold liar.
-[Uygur] You're the biggest liar. -No.
-You're a piece of-- -[Stone] Spitzer, he's a great guy?
First of all, Alex, this ain't your fucking show.
And, Roger, it surely ain't your fucking show!
Blowjob! Blowjob! Blowjob! Bullshit! Bullshit! Bullshit!
You're a hatchet man. I don't know why anyone in the media takes you seriously.
[Stone] You're a lightweight. You don't know anything.
All you do is lie. You're known as the biggest liar in media.
All you do is lie. You're known as the biggest liar in media. -[Stone] Name the lie. -The biggest liar in media.
Name a lie, loser. There's nobody watching your show, dude.
The guy starts pointing at me and yelling like a maniac.
"You're a liar! A proven liar!"
I say, "What have I lied about?" He says, "Eliot Spitzer."
I said, "He didn't like hookers? He doesn't like to choke women?
Don't you read the newspapers, dude?"
[Caputo] Roger doesn't want to be considered a sweetheart.
He's gonna be considered the Prince of Darkness.
And if he dies with that on his tombstone, I think he'll consider himself a success.
-[Stone] I wanted to say hello. -Hey. How are you?
[Manafort] Roger's relationship with Trump,
they both see the world in a very similar way.
If Trump is elected president, I think Roger will see
one more very significant impact he's had on world history.
[Ivanka Trump] I could not be more proud tonight to present to you and to all of America,
my father and our next president, Donald J. Trump.
Friends, delegates and fellow Americans,
I humbly and gratefully accept your nomination
for the presidency of the United States.
[crowd chanting] USA! USA! USA!
I would argue that Roger Stone, after 30 years working for Donald Trump,
is one of his primary influences, perhaps the primary influence.
And to think that the guy who calls out people on Twitter like Roger does,
who's done the things and told the stories,
is actually in the catbird seat with a Republican nominee
is something for the record books.
CNN has banned Roger Stone, the Republican strategist and former Trump advisor, from appearing as a guest.
This after the discovery of his offensive tweets against CNN contributors.
Stone once called Ana Navarro an "abusive diva" and "borderline retarded."
Stone also called then-contributor Roland Martin
a "stupid negro," a "moron" and a "token,"
and suggested he eat more fried chicken.
To ban someone because you disagree with their views
demonstrates you're not really a news organization,
but you're an opinion organization.
CNN means Clinton News Network.
There are more people watching Infowars.com
than watching MSNBC and, at some hours, CNN combined.
[Alex Jones] Ladies and gentlemen, we are broadcasting worldwide.
Roger Stone, the consummate Trump insider, the vice-Trumpian joins us.
You've got Alex Jones, he's like the sort of main conspiracy theorist,
probably the most popular in American life now.
You know, Roger Stone goes on that show every day.
There's this crazy vortex of all that stuff back from the '90s
just now sort of exploding through the channel of Trump.
I'm never a lesser-of-two-evils person,
but with Hillary, there's not even the same universe.
I mean, she is an abject, psychopathic demon from hell.
[Stone] Alex Jones is very important.
I realize the elite media likes to call him a conspiracy theorist.
I don't like 'em putting chemicals in the water that turns the frickin' frogs gay!
Do you understand that?
[grunting] I'm sick of this crap!
[Stone] He has a bully pulpit that allows him to reach millions of people,
and they are Trump's people.
They are outsiders, skeptical about government,
skeptical about the bullshit government is always trying to peddle you.
Mexico is a globalist client state.
And they teach 'em, "America belongs to you.
You're gonna get the gringo. Plan of San Diego."
Don't know what that is?
It's a plan to take over in a race war and kill all whites below the age of 16.
Sure it's a non-elitist crowd, but they're Americans and they vote.
Tell us, Mr. Trump, about Mr. Stone, who helped get this interview set up.
Well, Roger's a good guy, and he is a patriot.
He's a tough cookie, but people like him.
But he's been so loyal and so wonderful.
And thank God for the Breitbarts and the Daily Callers
and the Townhalls and the Infowars.com
and the so many alternative media sites where we can learn the truth
and we can tell the truth and we can spread the truth.
This is not conservatism as we have known it.
This is not Republicanism as we have known it.
These are racist ideas, race-baiting ideas,
anti-Muslim, anti-immigrant, anti-women.
All key tenets making up the emerging racist ideology known as the alt-right.
I think Trump should get more, you know, more, quote, "conspiratorial."
We created ISIS.
The vacuum created by George W. Bush and then Hillary Clinton armed ISIS.
ISIS is honoring President Obama.
He is the founder of ISIS. He's the founder of ISIS.
I would say the cofounder
would be Crooked Hillary Clinton, cofounder.
I think it's whatever Roger Stone e-mails Donald Trump in the middle of the night.
-He wakes up, and that's their strategy. -That's right.
[coughing] Excuse me.
So go online and put down "Hillary Clinton illness."
Take a look at the videos for yourself.
This fringe allegation that Hillary Clinton is not well, her health isn't good, is something that we're seeing
more and more with Donald Trump supporters.
Some of the Breitbart readers have brought it up. Also, Roger Stone has been talking about it.
She's got no stamina. I think it's abundantly clear.
She doesn't have the strength or the stamina
to make America great again. Believe me.
The people behind Trump's candidacy,
including Giuliani, including Roger Ailes, including Roger Stone,
including his so-called brain trust, believe this stuff works.
[Labash] Now the children's table is the adult table.
And Alex Jones is, you know, passing the dinner rolls.
And we're all conspiracy America now.
[Stone] Thank you.
Even if Donald Trump loses, I still win,
because the Stone brand has been front and center,
and my brand of politics have finally come into their own.
CNN, MSNBC, they're now the fringe.
Alt-right communications, we are the mainstream.
Did Trump really believe that Obama was not born in the United States?
Does Roger Stone really believe that Bill Clinton raped all these women?
You know, it doesn't matter to them is more the point.
It's their tactic in the political wars.
And for them, there are no boundaries. Anything goes. Anything that wins, fine.
[reporter 1] Today, WikiLeaks releasing 1,700 new stolen e-mails.
[reporter 2] The Clinton campaign is accusing a top Trump advisor
of scheming with WikiLeaks and Russian intelligence
against Hillary Clinton.
I, actually, have communicated with Assange.
I believe the next tranche of his documents
pertain to the Clinton Foundation.
Have you spoken with the WikiLeaks founder?
No, I have not spoken to Mr. Assange,
I have not met with Mr. Assange, and I never said I had.
[reporter] House Democrats now saying in Washington,
"Let's investigate Roger Stone's ties to the Russians."
Has the FBI interviewed Roger Stone about his communications with Julian Assange,
or his knowledge of how WikiLeaks got these illegally obtained documents?
I can't comment on that.
[Stone] Only Mr. Assange knows what he's going to do.
Now, I think he's a hero, fighting the deep state,
taking on both the Republicans and the Democrats.
Taking on the establishment, really.
[reporter] Law enforcement sources tell CNN that the FBI has been conducting multiple investigations
and it continues to examine allegations against Roger Stone, a Trump supporter,
about possible connections to WikiLeaks.
Those probes include a year-long investigation
of Trump campaign manager Paul Manafort
and his firm and their alleged ties to pro-Putin figures in Ukraine.
These cyberattacks come from the highest levels of the Kremlin,
and they are designed to influence our election.
I find that deeply disturbing, and I think it's time...
-She has no idea whether it's Russia... -...you take a stand... ...China, or anybody else.
-I'm not quoting myself. I'm quoting 17... -Hillary, you have no idea.
[Stone] The Clinton thugs, they're the ones saying,
"Donald Trump is a traitor to his country, in bed with Vladimir Putin,"
a man he's never even met.
Russia, if you're listening,
I hope you're able to find the 30,000 e-mails that are missing.
It's the low road in American politics.
They have unabashedly embraced the toughest tactics you can take.
And you can see it in Roger Stone, and you can see it in Trump.
I mean, no boundaries to what they would do.
They'll twist the truth if they need to.
They're cynical about politics.
They think people who take the high road
or who try to act virtuously are chumps.
The Trump campaign's latest reboot now underway.
Two new top officials who Trump is bringing in.
Pollster Kellyanne Conway as campaign manager,
and Breitbart News honcho Steve Bannon to be Trump's new campaign CEO.
Sources say Manafort is being, quote, "sidelined."
Another bombshell from the Trump campaign today.
The resignation of the embattled campaign chairman Paul Manafort,
amid a wave of bad headlines
and growing questions about Manafort's connections to Russia.
Also added to the team is the disgraced Fox News chief Roger Ailes,
and also Roger Stone, who is a political operative.
Roger Ailes, Roger Stone, Steve Bannon, they play rough.
Bannon is a bomb thrower in the Stone mold.
Somebody I like enormously. He's got guts.
He understands new media in a way that I think no one else in the Trump campaign did.
He understands the fine points of the Clinton oeuvre, if you will.
Uh, he has republished all of my toughest material
from The Clintons' War on Women at Breitbart News.
So he understands the enemy better than, perhaps, anybody else in the Trump campaign.
And like Donald Trump, he's fearless.
He's tough as nails. He's driven.
Uh, I think he's the campaign's secret weapon at this point.
Good evening, everybody. It is now established,
this is indeed the dirtiest presidential campaign in modern history.
[reporter] The last four weeks of the campaign, Roger Stone said it's going to be brutal.
Earlier today, the Washington Post released audio of Donald Trump from 2005.
[woman] Kind of relevant to people
whether their future president happens to also be a sexist pig.
[reporter 2] A new poll reveals how much that tape of Donald Trump is hurting his poll numbers.
Breitbart and Roger Stone are in Donald Trump's head
telling him, "You need to go all-out scorched-earth."
Bill Clinton sexually assaulted innocent women,
and Hillary Clinton attacked those women viciously.
I expect in the fall that many of these women will be speaking out.
Bill Clinton raped me, and Hillary Clinton threatened me.
[reporter] Kathy Shelton was paid $2,500 in May
by a pro-Trump super PAC run by Roger Stone.
If you look at Bill Clinton, far worse. Mine are words and his was action.
After the most recent debate, Clinton leads 49 to 41.
You've got Roger Stone running out there saying that the system is rigged
and that there'll be revolution and blood in the streets.
It's just awfully good that someone with the temperament of Donald Trump
is not in charge of the law in our country.
-Because you'd be in jail. -[audience clamoring]
[reporter] FBI director James Comey announced
the bureau is renewing its investigation into her personal e-mail server.
[Trump] Crooked Hillary Clinton.
It's not clear if the tightening in the polls stems from FBI director James Comey's widely condemned disclosure.
Donald Trump has taken this country to the brink.
And tomorrow, voters are likely to take it back.
[reporter 1] Good morning to you. 576 days campaigning,
more than 280 campaign events
and now this historic day is finally here.
Hillary Clinton calls this election the test of our time.
[reporter 2] In Rochester, New York, dozens put "I voted" stickers
on the grave of suffragist Susan B. Anthony
on the day the first woman nominee for president
with a major party was on the ballot.
We're looking at the first woman president of the United States.
Aren't you excited for the first female president?
-No! -I am.
We can't go for Crooked Clinton. We can't go for her.
If Hillary Clinton can run for president, can you do anything?
Yeah.
[reporter] Hillary Clinton is favored to win today.
The polls have all shown her ahead by four points or so.
I'm not fatalist. I just see them with CNN, ABC,
all about how Hillary's gonna win all day.
And I see they're pre-scripting she's gonna win.
They're very hopeful. They're optimistic.
A glass ceiling they're hoping to, symbolically, burst through tonight.
Super excited. I wanna make sure that I'm here to experience history.
What we see from the early returns is that her ground game has really delivered.
Let me tell you this, it is Florida, Florida, Florida.
[reporter] Donald Trump has taken the lead in Florida.
[Stone] I talked to some of my colleagues in Trump Tower just a few minutes ago.
There's a little optimism here.
No one thought it was gonna be this close at this point. Trump can still win this.
[reporter] We have another state to project. It is North Carolina.
Battleground state. It's going to Donald Trump.
I was actually ready to go to bed, uh, then I started seeing the Electoral College come in,
and I'm, like, super psyched.
This is going to be a very close election.
[Stone] I'm seeing these late-breaking trends.
This could hand Trump the presidency. Folks, this is not, by any means, over.
I think there's some real jitters setting in at Clinton headquarters right now.
Wolf, the scene here is so different than it was a few hours ago
when people were happy and relaxed.
This is most unexpected.
It certainly is a huge, huge surprise to so many people out there...
[Todd] I think we all thought it couldn't happen,
that he couldn't do what he did. And guess what?
He may just do it.
[man] Donald Trump has taken the lead. He has 216 electoral votes.
The beginning of the end for Hillary Clinton's campaign.
[man] He's pulling ahead of Hillary Clinton. You see it there, 222...
...a number of groups who are likely feeling real fear right now.
You've got women, immigrants, who have been threatened by Donald Trump with deportation.
How do I explain this to my children?
I have Muslim friends who are texting me tonight,
saying, "Should I leave the country?"
America is crying tonight.
I'm not sure how much of America, but a very, very significant portion.
And I mean literally crying.
[crowd chanting] Trump! Trump! Trump!
[reporter 1] This is a very unexpected turn,
and now, his crowd here is saying, "President Trump, President Trump,"
and there is vast celebration going on here.
[reporter 2] Donald Trump will be the 45th president of the United States.
Ah, yeah. [woman] The basket of deplorables has arrived.
[man] People have talked about a miracle.
I'm hearing about a nightmare.
[woman] This is your life now. This is us. This is our country.
[Stone] Stone's Rule.
"Past is fucking prologue."
"Silent majority," "the forgotten Americans."
"I am the candidate of law and order."
It's not me who found this trend. It's those who went before me.
I just saw Trump's ability to utilize it to become president.
This is the manifestation of a dream I've had since 1988.
And I've always thought Donald Trump had the size and the courage and the balls
to become president of the United States.
We're in the age of Stone because the change in our politics,
the rough-and-tumble cutthroat politics, the slash-and-burn of what was just
probably the dirtiest, nastiest campaign in American political history,
are now in vogue.
[man] What message would you have for the viewers of this film
who will loathe you when the credits roll?
I revel in your hatred,
the universe,
our own existence,
are ruled by laws that are well known.
Laws that nothing and nobody can escape.
Nevertheless, the scientific community had overlooked something until now:
the strange and deep relationship between those laws
and our own emotional behavior.
You are about to find out how the laws of physics
can be applied to the emotions that rule our daily routine.
And including, especially, those of a much lesser-known discipline:
Thermodynamics!
Okay, what are thermodynamics?
Can any of you tell me?
Don't everyone raise your hand at once, you'll confuse me.
As the name indicates, thermodynamics
As the name indicates, thermodynamics is the study of the movement of heat.
Specifically, the ways in which energy is transformed.
Because as you already know, energy can take many forms.
This is Manel Suarez, he'll be my assistant during the course.
Please go easy on him.
Manel spent his weekend building this little steamboat for you,
which works thanks to the laws of thermodynamics.
Please, everyone come closer.
Quickly. Take these seats.
Manel, explain how it works before the demonstration.
Okay, um...
This little bowl contains the fuel that will feed the flame, the flame will heat the water in this tank...
the flame will heat the water in this tank...
Once heated, the water will expand
and come out of these two small tubes, propelling the boat.
That's so, Manel. Beautiful.
Let's try it out.
Here, take mine.
Looks like it won't light...
That's all right.
What you're seeing also responds to the principles of thermodynamics.
The principles we're talking about not only rule our lives
completely, they will also finally determine our fate and that of the entire universe.
Prepare yourselves, on the shoulders of giants,
for a new leap in the history of science.
Welcome to the passionate and terrifying world of...
THE LAWS OF THERMODYNAMICS A DOCUMENTARY BY MANEL SUAREZ
In order to discuss thermodynamics, we need to refer to a system.
In this case, let's take the "humanity" system,
with its thousands of individual particles moving and interacting with each other.
And we'll focus on a few of those particles.
For example, the Manel-particle...
and the Elena-particle,
who still haven't met.
The first thing we must know
is that all thermodynamic systems tend towards equilibrium.
But don't be fooled by how nice this word sounds.
It's precisely the lack of equilibrium that could give the Manel and Elena particles
of equilibrium that could give the Manel and Elena particles
the chance to meet and interact, to build something together.
Equilibrium in this case means the dispersion of the particles
and the absence of activity, of heat exchange.
Unfortunately, that's what we tend to move towards.
You're sleeping over at my place tomorrow. I have to get up early.
Me too.
How was your first day of class?
Did the boat work?
Wonderfully, like an outboard.
My super physicist aeronautical naval industrial nuclear engineer.
I bet all the girls were making eyes at you.
One of them did.
I love how you lie to me to make me horny.
Have you done everything yet?
Wash the dishes, sweep the floor, air out the flat,
lock the front door twice?
Then the Raquel-Manuel physical system is ready to fuck.
You still need to get your things ready for tomorrow.
And super romantic.
You've got it all.
But let's go straight to heat exchange and the laws of thermodynamics.
What?
It simply what?
It's transformed, it's turned into something else.
ONE MONTH LATER
Into what? -I don't know, into affection. -Affection?
That's what I feel for my dog.
Not that kind, it's more special.
But last night we fucked and you said you loved me.
I was your proton and you were my electron.
-You called me pickles. -Well, I mainly called you Raquel.
What are you talking about? What happened?
Love doesn't just transform overnight!
Well, it wasn't overnight. Oh, it wasn't overnight.
Oh, it wasn't overnight. No, it wasn't.
ONE YEAR LATER
We decided to take a break 3 months ago.
Two months, 18 days and 6 hours since you asked for time.
Exactly, it wasn't overnight.
-You're not telling me the truth. -What?
I'm saying I don't love you anymore.
No, you're not telling me the whole truth.
What else do you want me to say?
-Why did your love transform? -I already told you.
Love doesn't just transform overnight!
-You're going into a loop. -No, I'm not.
-Say it. -Say what?
What your love has really turned into.
-You really want to know? -You owe me that.
Into indifference.
You think I'm stupid?
Indifference is what's left when love has turned into something else.
I don't understand you.
You understand me perfectly. Say it.
Please, say it. Please.
Say it! There's someone else.
There's someone else.
ONE MONTH LATER - ONE YEAR LATER
Which brings us to the second law of thermodynamics.
-Wait a second! -Wait a second!
But let's not get ahead of ourselves.
To fully understand what's happening,
we have to go back in time to the moment where it all began.
Inertia. That's what's acting on the Manel-body at this moment.
And in general, up until this moment.
-Do you love me? -Madly.
But let's continue with the laws of motion.
The girl you see now, or Eva-body, will help us explain the second law.
In this case, the force propelling Eva is named Rosa, who is also her mother.
She's been waiting for her for 15 minutes to have lunch.
And here we can see the effects of the third law.
Action,
reaction.
But Newton's huge contribution doesn't end here,
nor the event that triggered our story.
Allow me to introduce the Pablo-body
and one of the key laws of physics and of this story:
The law of gravity
or attraction of bodies.
This law is so important that we should stop here for a second.
A body's gravity depends on its mass, which we mustn't identify by its weight,
rather by the amount of attractive material.
That's why the Pablo-body and the fatso-body are the ones attracted,
the ones that fall towards the super-massive Elena-body,
and not the other way around.
Gravity.
It alone can set us in motion,
change the direction of our path,
or disintegrate us.
God, what happened? I'm sorry, are you hurt?
-What a blow. You okay? -Yeah.
Jesus Christ, I cracked your head open. Why are you on the ground?
It had to be you.
You two know each other?
Did you do this on purpose?
I wouldn't be surprised if you planned it.
You're the one with the twisted mind here.
And no, it wasn't on purpose. I wasn't that bent on meeting you.
And yes, I'm okay. Are you?
Seeing stars, but okay, yeah.
I'm so sorry, I don't know what I was thinking.
We're okay, thank you!
Thank you.
Thanks.
We were meeting for a drink on the terrace.
Would you two like to join us while we recover?
Sure, no problem.
Okay, until my friend gets here.
That's Manel, I'm Pablo.
I'm Eva. Nice crashing into you.
Likewise.
I'm Manel.
No, thank you. Elena, right?
You look great in all the photos. Spectacular.
But the campaign's a bit dull.
You know we publicists criticize everything.
Really? I never noticed.
What do you two do?
I'm a criminal lawyer. I recently opened -my own office. -How brave.
-my own office. -How brave.
You have no idea.
And you? I'm an astrophysicist.
I'm writing a thesis about thermodynamics in complex systems.
Yeah? -How interesting. -He's a genius at what he does.
-How interesting. -He's a genius at what he does.
Here is where it all began. Luckily gravity
Here is where it all began. Luckily gravity isn't the only force of nature.
And how do thermodynamics work -in complex systems? -It's very easy...
-in complex systems? -It's very easy...
It's too bad there are so many super-massive bodies in the universe.
Oh, hi.
How are you? Look, Pablo, Eva and...
Manel.
You ready? The others all came too.
Okay, I'll be right there.
-Don't worry about it, I've got it. -Thanks.
Well, it was nice crashing into you guys.
-Likewise. -A pleasure.
Shell-shocked.
Bye.
Elena!
Take my card.
Give me a call when the swelling goes down and we'll celebrate.
Right? All four of us. We're having fun.
Sure, whoever recovers first can call.
Okay, it's a deal. Bye.
She's gorgeous, huh? Yeah, she's okay.
You're not so bad yourself. Besides brave.
I'm going out for a drink tonight with Pablo.
And some people from his agency, I think.
Maybe Pablito will find himself a girlfriend...
Do you realize you've created a mini solar system on the dance floor?
You have a ton of planets of all types.
Look, giant planets...
Desert planets...
Gaseous planets...
Red planets...
Even inhabited ones.
I was inhabited when I was 16 too.
For real.
Are you a planet too?
I'm Mercury. I'm burning up as we speak.
Look, you even have a planet with its own moon.
Look at that, I think your admirers are even following the same laws
as the planets around the sun.
-You're crazy. -Seriously. Kepler's laws.
If you watch closely, they're not going around in circles.
When they're behind you, they move further away.
And when they pass in front of you, they move closer.
So you'll look at them. They're actually following an ellipse.
They're filling the dance floor.
But since they don't want to look too desperate,
when they pass in front of you, they walk a little faster.
Are there more laws? One more.
Planets which orbit further away move more slowly. Probably because
move more slowly. Probably because you make the closer planets more nervous.
So if you get closer you'll get more nervous?
I'll start emitting ultraviolet radiation.
Here?
Here we're risking a cosmic collision.
You're crazy... but cute.
-Wait a second! -Wait a second!
Who is it?
-Who is who? -Who do you think?
What does that matter now?
It's "Leoreennazo," right?
How do you know?
-You can't even lie. -What a shitty liar.
The bill... you asked me for.
Manel, don't do it.
Please, think about it.
I know you, she's not right for you.
Do whatever the fuck you want, I don't care.
But I'm telling you, that guy is going to fuck you up.
She's a top model. Mulatto. Everybody wants her.
An actor and a model. You know what that means?
His job is to fuck anything that moves!
You think she'll put up with your order and your obsessions like I do?
That she'll appreciate your absurd theories
about love and the laws of physics?
You think he'll settle for one model
when he can have one every day who are also actresses?
You're going to suffer even when you're on top.
I'll sit outside my door and watch your cadaver walk by.
I told you this would happen.
And while you were insisting that you needed to reflect, you were fucking that jerk?
The fucking stud.
Thank God I saw it coming and had my guard up.
Otherwise you'd dump me and I would feel like shit right now.
But we're getting ahead of ourselves again.
Before we continue with thermodynamics,
we need to go back in the relationship and science
to the period of happy discoveries and faith in knowledge,
to the sweet peak of classical physics.
You're a grandfather!
This is my favorite corner.
Shit! -Damn it! -Gross!
Please...
Don't touch me with that!
Gravity is a powerful force
when it comes to attracting bodies to each other.
But it stops being one once they've already been brought together.
So let's study these forces
in relation to our particular Manel-Elena atomic system.
Here we're risking a cosmic collision.
You're crazy... but cute.
Chemistry.
Chemistry is what made Elena choose me instead of Pablo that night.
It's also what makes everything flow smoothly between particles.
Okay, Elena... It was a pleasure. You can call Pablo, you have his number,
It was a pleasure. You can call Pablo, you have his number, -if you want to hook up sometime. -You don't want to come with me?
-if you want to hook up sometime. -You don't want to come with me?
Good morning.
Or what causes that tingle
whenever we're about to see the other particle.
-You can't come in here. -I'm here to see Elena.
You're Manel?
Go ahead, you can stay on that side.
When the chemistry is intense, you really feel the electricity.
I'll be done in a little while.
You're very organized, aren't you?
No. You think?
-Where's dinner? -In the oven.
And the dirty pans? Or clean ones?
It's a question of method.
How about some wine, Mr. Method?
What's fascinating about science is everything can be explained.
For example, don't you think it's strange
that with all the advances we've made in biology,
we still don't know what life is?
That the famous mystery still hasn't been revealed?
I don't know, is it?
Maybe there's nothing to reveal. That's what's amazing.
Life is probably just a consequence of how atoms organize themselves,
another step in the evolution of complex systems.
That's why I study them.
You're the one who's a complex system.
We're just a bunch of organized atoms.
Even if we think there's something divine about life and we're in charge,
everything is predetermined by a few basic rules.
How sad, right? I don't know, I'd rather think there is a mystery
I don't know, I'd rather think there is a mystery and that life is special.
If not, what's the point?
This bunch of organized atoms has decided it needs to go to the bathroom.
Actually, you didn't decide. It was already decided before you decided.
You were saying?
No. No, I forgot.
I'll start emitting ultraviolet radiation.
Actually, weak force isn't so weak nor difficult to detect.
You just need to be in the right place.
Within the atomic system, that force is felt with great intensity.
Tell me you don't snore.
PHASE 1
Hi!
This is where you're preparing your thesis?
I got you a present, I couldn't help myself.
What? Why?
Because it's not your style...
And it proves that Mr. Method is not a lost cause. There's still hope.
It's beautiful.
It's identical, how did you do it?
I had to take the sculptor to the park and make a cast.
-Seriously? -Yeah.
We almost got caught. It was fun.
I think it's the best present anyone's ever given me.
Get a room!
Let's go to your place and pick a spot for it.
Most people would say that strong nuclear force is love
because it makes particles inseparable.
But more careful analysis demonstrates that it's actually more of a dependence.
Have a happy day. You too.
The farther away the other particle gets, the more you need it.
And when the rubber band breaks,
things like the atomic bomb happen.
-Wanna hear a secret? -Please.
You're the first person I'm telling.
I want to be an actress.
Actually, it's what I've always wanted to be...
because I love the idea of stopping being myself
and pretending I'm someone else, living other lives,
meeting different people with stories to tell...
Do you remember the guy I was talking to after the photo shoot? With the black hat?
I was talking to after the photo shoot? With the black hat?
The one who was devouring you with his eyes?
Yeah, that one.
He offered me the starring role in a short film.
I haven't read the script yet, but I just decided I'm going to do it.
Thanks for telling me your secret.
The question you're probably asking yourselves
is if two particles have the same forces acting on them,
do they feel them with the same intensity?
I like y... being with you.
Look what pretty bikes!
There you see. Some signs indicate that these forces
might not have exactly the same effect on both particles.
Tell me you don't snore.
For the other particle, the weak nuclear force might be too weak.
I'm sorry, but I have trouble sleeping in the same bed with someone else.
Or the electromagnetic charge might not be complementary enough.
Or the strong force rubber band might be too elastic.
I missed you so much.
For me the week flew by!
Not to mention that gravity never stops acting on us.
You already hold hands in the street?
Just the other day and she found an excuse
Just the other day and she found an excuse -right away to let go. -But you see each other a lot.
-right away to let go. -But you see each other a lot.
No, she's always too busy.
Damn, this chick is hot.
Sure you don't want to see? She's a bombshell.
They offered Elena this campaign, but she couldn't do it.
Better. You have no idea. The other day after the photos,
You have no idea. The other day after the photos, when we finished...
Manel, you might be picking up signals that aren't there.
You're grabbing at straws.
You guys have fun together, right? I do.
Maybe she's just a little spooked.
No, you notice stuff like that.
Your body can tell if the other person is falling in love or not.
Damn, those are big words. You're falling in love?
I fell in love the day we crashed into her.
What about you? What about me?
-With Eva. -Fine.
We hang out, have sex, good vibe.
But are you...? What?
No way.
I wouldn't mind because she's fantastic, but no.
-What about her? -Her? No, she isn't either.
Well, I don't think so.
I hope not, she hasn't said anything.
Damn.
No, I don't think so. No.
No, definitely not. Hell no.
No, no, no.
Hi. What's up?
Oops, sorry.
Take my hand or I'll make a huge fucking scene you won't believe.
You're a son of a bitch.
Why? I behave myself. I treat her like a queen.
-Like you do all the girls you fuck. -Sure, I'm a gentleman.
Thanks.
Look, Manel.
I think you need to relax and give Elena time.
Play it cool, make her miss you.
Go out more, go to the gym, meet women too...
It won't matter, the scale is already tipped.
I think Elena and I have reached our peak of happiness.
Damn, with that attitude no wonder she got spooked.
It's not an attitude, it's science. It's in the books.
You don't know because all you think about is getting laid, but the initial
conditions within a system are what determine its evolution.
Huh? What?
It's very simple. We have a system and two parts with different temperatures.
So the second law of thermodynamics is already set in motion.
What was the second law?
Why aren't you answering?
But what is entropy?
Get ready to understand once and for all something you'll never forget.
How hard is it to send a message?
There's someone else.
But there's still more.
There's another way to look at entropy and it's even more troubling, even more devastating.
and it's even more troubling, even more devastating.
I was up all night gluing it back together.
You didn't have to.
It doesn't look so bad.
-After all you went through to... -It's okay.
It has even more personality now.
It wasn't such a pretty sculpture.
I can't see you this week, Manel, I'll be too busy with the short film.
I'll be too busy with the short film.
You can visit me on the set, but I can't spend any time with you.
You're leaving already? You just got here.
I'm sorry, I can't stay. I have a rehearsal.
-Is everything okay? -I don't know.
Is everything okay?
You didn't answer my messages yesterday.
I didn't. Wow. I'm sorry I'm so busy.
-Really. -Is that all?
That's all. Don't freak out.
You might be going a little fast for me. But everything's fine, okay?
See you on Sunday. Come up with some law of physics to explain to me.
Wish me luck.
Good luck.
Hi, excuse me. I'm here to see Elena, I'm Manel.
Manel? Manel who? They already left.
But they told me they were here ten minutes ago.
They're shooting the rest of the day somewhere else, like two hours away.
Maybe we could do a threesome.
PHASE 2
I don't mean to...
I didn't mean to startle you, but I must say that your thesis
I didn't mean to startle you, but I must say that your thesis is coming along more slowly than expected.
It sucks.
It could also be expressed that way, yes.
Right now a lot of people are working on thermodynamics in complex systems.
If you don't hurry up, someone might beat you to it.
I'm sick of thermodynamics and complex systems.
Did you know that a large number of physicists
who developed thermodynamics committed suicide?
Or even worse, they tried unsuccessfully.
Some even lost their wives and children while trying.
The statistics are staggering.
No, I didn't know.
I'm telling you because you don't look very enthusiastic.
-I'm just tired. A bad night. -Anyway,
-I'm just tired. A bad night. -Anyway, I only wanted to tell you that your thesis is very promising,
but you mustn't lose your edge.
We're anxiously awaiting your results.
I'll tell you about my night.
Remember, we're talking about disorder and lost energy here.
Have a seat! This is ready and it gets cold fast!
Hello?
Shit, it's overdone.
I'm sorry, I was in a hurry and everything came out backwards.
-If you'd told me a little sooner... -Hi.
Go on, sit down.
It won't be great. What are you drinking, wine?
-I brought you a bottle. -Open it and I'll start serving.
I have a casting for a movie on Monday.
I'm a little nervous, so let's not get overwhelmed, okay?
I'll help you clean up after.
Yeah, okay. I just wanted everything to be perfect
Yeah, okay. I just wanted everything to be perfect -when you got here. -I came to see you.
-when you got here. -I came to see you.
And I'm sure your dinner is great.
Wait, let me get this.
My love, let's have dinner and have a nice chat.
-Okay? -Okay.
I'll make coffee.
I'm not finished yet.
That way it'll be ready when you are.
I'll clear the table while I'm at it.
It's not the smoke, it's the smell of food, it's too stuffy in here.
I love this song.
I'll turn it down a bit, you hear everything up here.
At least until we close the windows. I'll do that in a second.
Don't take the wine. Please.
Yeah, right, sorry.
You're fascinating, you know that?
Look at your home.
Your books arranged by subjects, your figures always perfectly placed,
your pajamas neatly folded by the bed...
I admire you.
I really do.
But my love, I think you need a little...
What was this called again?
Entropy?
Sorry. I'm sorry!
Wow.
I wouldn't just call it entropy.
I'd also call it... joy!
Joy!
What are you doing?
-Will you stop? -Joy!
-Calm down for a second! -Fly!
Elena, please...
Not the drawers... Okay, okay...
-I was dying to do this. -We have to talk.
No, not the books, they're in order...
-Come on, be happy with me. -No, hold on.
Wait, let's talk... Damn
I'll stop cleaning up, I promise!
That's enough, knock it off!
-We can't sleep, damn it! -Elena, please... Some people have to work!
Some people have to work!
-Sorry! -Come here...
Let me free you, Mr. Scientific Method! Elena, let me go!
You're repressed, don't you see?
What's your problem? You spoiled brat!
You see? You never think of the consequences!
It's better than being 15 moves ahead all the time!
You've got Kasparov Syndrome!
Yeah? And what's your thing called? When people only care about themselves?
Don't change the subject, Mr. Method. You're turning into a pain in the ass!
Oh, yeah. It's called "egocentritis." When your ego is bigger than your head.
What am I doing here with a stick in the mud like you?
You're here because nobody can stand you.
Your ego absorbs everything like a black hole.
And yours doesn't?
All you want is for me to follow you around like a puppy dog.
Oh, great. Now you're leaving, right?
I think that's enough disorder to keep you busy for a while.
You see? That's what you're like.
Things get messy and you leave me here to clean it up.
It's your mess.
Give me the key, please.
I gave you a copy, remember?
I lost it, I forgot to tell you. Will you please open the door?
You lost the key to my flat?
Great. Well, I don't know where I put mine, I'm sorry.
No, I'm sorry, for being so clumsy...
Please, go ahead and leave. Everything is fine.
Thanks for coming, it was a pleasure.
No, thank you, I had a blast. You're a laugh a minute.
You're too kind!
No, really. I love being with you. I'm going to miss you so much.
Me too!
I love you!
Damn it! I am such a fucking idiot!
What was that?
That was thermodynamics reacting on my coffee pot.
Thanks.
I'll help you clean up, okay?
No. Don't even think about it.
Yes, we both did this. No, you have to get up early tomorrow.
I said I want to help you clean up!
-No, damn it, I don't want you to. -Why wouldn't you want me to?
-Because you clean badly! -I know!
No, I'm okay. It's fine, we'll hook up another time.
Yeah, don't worry, we'll talk later.
I'm fine. You do your thing.
Everything's fine, really.
It's just a little dog shit that got stuck in my hair
when I fell headfirst into shit because I was chasing you
like I do all the fucking time while you do your own fucking thing!
Fuck!
Sorry.
You don't deserve me, you bastard!
You don't...
Oh, yes, yes, like that!
This is all you want me for.
You only want me for sex, damn it!
I'm going to leave you...
I swear, I'm going to leave you...
Bastard, I swear I'm going to...
I'm going to... I'm going to...
leave... you... you... you.
I got the part! What part?
Remember the casting I did? Oh, right.
I'm so happy! In two months I'll be shooting a movie!
I'm sorry, we'll have to cancel our vacation.
Isn't it incredible? The director called me to tell me!
Daniel Sánchez Arévalo. What's this?
It was to say I'm sorry.
Sorry? What for?
Hey, I can't stay home tonight.
I'm meeting the director and some people from the crew to celebrate.
You can sleep over but I don't know what time I'll be back.
No, that's okay, I have things to do at home.
-Okay. You're not mad? -No.
Why don't you make something to drink while I get dressed?
Why don't you make something to drink while I get dressed? I need a drink!
Entropy advances slowly.
Sometimes it's nearly impossible to detect.
But it's unstoppable.
To eliminate it, you'd have to stop particles in motion,
fix them somehow to some unalterable structure.
And even then you'd never be able to eliminate it completely.
Sooner or later,
entropy destroys the efficiency of the system...
and the machine stops working.
I think we should give ourselves some time.
And even though one formula calculates entropy in terms of probability
and the other in terms of energy,
even calculating such different things, the results match.
Isn't that fascinating?
No?
I don't get it, teach.
You know me, I study all the time, but thermodynamics is too much for me.
but thermodynamics is too much for me.
What is it you don't get?
Any of it. To start with, I don't get the point of any of this.
Maybe you don't get it because you've missed a subtle but important detail.
That all of this doesn't only affect the substances we use in the laboratory.
It affects you, it affects me, it affects everyone.
The second law of thermodynamics
explains why a glass you drop smashes into pieces on the floor but if you drop the pieces they don't form a glass.
but if you drop the pieces they don't form a glass.
It explains why machines stop working if you don't use them,
why sand castles never last and why we always end up forgetting everything.
It explains why what you wanted to do becomes the mess you end up making
and why your girlfriend gets bored with you and finds someone else.
It even explains why we can't go back in time and fix the things we screwed up with her.
and fix the things we screwed up with her.
It explains practically everything you do wrong.
Because it applies to all systems,
starting with the universe itself and ending with your own life
and the shitty social system you're wasting away in.
Think about it.
Bring me a book report next week.
HEY, WHAT'S UP?
No, damn it!
No, damn it!
Elena?
No, this isn't Procrastinators Anonymous.
Sadly, my friends, in the very long term
Sadly, my friends, in the very long term there won't even be super-massive and wonderful beings like Elena
there won't even be super-massive and wonderful beings like Elena to make us suffer.
But we're getting ahead of ourselves again.
Let's go back one more time to understand what really happened,
where classical physics started going wrong
and brought us to the current state of things.
Hey, hi! Great!
Hey, hi! Great! -And you? -Great.
Manel, this is Lorenzo. He's my co-star in the movie.
-How are you? -Fine.
Pablo... Pablo!
Eva! Eva!
Over here! Pablo! Eva!
Sweetie, call him!
Look who's there!
He's so crazy!
I don't understand how Eva goes along with it.
Pablo!
Let's consider an event.
In this case, it will happen in about eight seconds.
And let's suppose we have two observers,
one standing still and the other in motion with respect to the event.
Let's see how each one observes the event.
From the girlfriend's point of view,
Pablo falls in a straight line towards the ground.
For his lover, however, since the bus is moving,
Pablo falls following a curve.
The curve is obviously longer than the straight line,
so his lover will see him fall at a greater speed than his girlfriend.
I felt like I was in the air forever.
Does it hurt a lot?
What were you thinking, son? How could you fall off a bus?
Where is Eva?
Okay, everyone. I have to wash him. This can be very unpleasant.
-What should we do? -Leave.
-What should we do? -Leave. Go outside and shut the door, I'm going to scream.
Can you ask Eva to come and help, please?
I'm right here.
For me the week flew by!
You're leaving already? You just got here.
You might be going a little fast for me. But everything's fine.
Just to clarify:
Falling in love has the same effect as running faster than you're supposed to.
In both cases, your heart races and wants to jump out of your mouth.
Hi, Manel. Hi.
We agreed not to speak, that we needed to reflect.
Yeah, but I wanted to say that I've reflected.
A lot.
And I can't bear the thought
of losing you. I'll do anything you want not to lose you.
I know, Manel, but... that's not how it works.
The scene you made the other day... That's not the Manel I like.
I like the one from the beginning, before you started freaking out.
I think you need to keep reflecting.
In other words, stars like Elena deform the spacetime around them with their mere presence.
the spacetime around them with their mere presence.
And planets like Manel think they're free
and moving in a straight line when they're actually trapped,
orbiting around their star.
I'm fine, really. I feel awesome.
I don't even miss her anymore.
My life is finally straightening out.
Did you know that quantum physics started when a scientist...
Ernest Rutherford was his name...
got the idea to imagine the atom like a miniature solar system,
with particles orbiting around each other?
What a son of a bitch.
Let's consider Elena and Manel again as a system of subatomic particles.
The evolution of his visits to her flat
will serve as an example of the implausible quantum laws.
I got an urgent job, I'll see you tonight!
I got an urgent job, I'll see you tonight! OPTION 1
OPTION 2
I was thinking you could have keys to my place as well.
OPTION 3
Use the keys I gave you! Dinner is burning!
OPTION 1
Happy birthday, Mr. Method!
OPTION 2
Did you check if dinner is burning?
OPTION 3
What are you doing?
Sorry!
Even if you have keys, you can ring the doorbell first!
I'm going to the bathroom.
But the uncertainty arises not only from the fact that you can't know what it's doing,
but from something much more disturbing.
What are you doing?
What did you say?
What are you doing?
What, you want details about what I do in the bathroom?
And your cell phone?
I left it in the bathroom.
You're going to leave it there?
Do you mind? Do you want me to go get it?
But this phenomenon is merely a consequence
of the deepest and most terrifying truth presented by quantum physics:
wave-particle duality.
What did you do last night?
Why?
You were with Lorenzo, right?
Are you seriously asking me?
You were with Lorenzo.
I was with you.
Please, don't change the subject.
I was with you!
I don't care if you were with me! You fucked him! Go on, say it!
I don't care if you were with me! You fucked him! Go on, say it! You fucked him!
Normally I'm not like this, you know.
But there's something I haven't told you yet.
Let's go back to my visits to Elena's flat
so you can finally understand what happened.
Manel, we have to have a serious talk.
You were shitting yourself, eh?
I got an urgent job, I'll see you tonight!
I got the part!
But studying a sufficient number of particles
is the same as studying the same particle
a sufficient number of times.
Manel!
And relationships in particular offer us enough time to study the particle a lot of times.
At the exact moment you observe the particle,
the cloud and the rest of the possibilities disappear.
The particle stops behaving like a wave and it's really doing what you see.
Lorenzo is hot.
He hasn't stopped hitting on me since we met
and he's hot.
You already said that.
I flirt with him too.
Sometimes I've even thought about fucking him.
Especially when I'm having doubts about you.
But I don't fall in love with someone because he's hot
and I don't want a boyfriend who's a model or an actor.
That's the last thing I want.
I want someone who thinks about other things,
about things more important than ourselves,
who doesn't spend all day seducing people
or have an ego bigger than his own head.
-Like yours. -Like mine, yeah.
I want a boyfriend who explains weird things to me,
over and over again because I don't understand them
over and over again because I don't understand them and nobody else does either, but I love it.
A thermodynamic boyfriend who I can call Mr. Method.
A clean freak who makes me show up on time
and watch documentaries and go to bed early.
Even if he always falls asleep before I do.
Don't give up yet, just be a little patient with me.
Okay?
But don't be fooled by her sensationalist little speech.
The course of our relationship would have been marked anyway.
That money is mine, rookie!
Cut!
They say quantum physics put an end to scientific determinism.
Elena!
But that's nothing but a wrong assessment.
You were perfect.
Probability, let's repeat,
is just as determinant over time as the most exact of all laws.
is just as determinant over time as the most exact of all laws. It's infallible.
And even worse, it leaves you with no weapons to fight it.
In the end, probability always puts you in your place.
Especially when you can't see where the other particle is.
Which takes us back to the second law of thermodynamics.
Why do you think entropy always marks the worst direction possible?
Because the chances of things turning out the way you want
are ridiculous compared to the chances they won't.
I don't care if you were with me! You fucked him!
Go on, say it! You fucked him!
The chances of the other particles being where you want them to be will always be extremely small.
being where you want them to be will always be extremely small.
I think we should give ourselves some time.
I need to reflect and... and you need to reflect.
There's another quantum phenomenon that clearly explains
There's another quantum phenomenon that clearly explains what happens during periods of reflection between couples.
Or did you actually think these periods have ever been used to reflect?
HELLO! HOW ARE YOU? I WOULD LIKE TO TALK TO YOU...
Complementary states doesn't mean they're the same, don't you see?
Fine, I'm not okay. I feel like shit.
And that's exactly why I know, I'm positive that she's happy.
That son of a bitch Rutherford.
I'm going to the bathroom.
-Okay, but you didn't decide that. -Fine.
Look, Manel. We've been friends for a long time.
I've always listened to your theories and I've even shown interest.
But I can't take it anymore. You're a pain in the ass.
Thanks, buddy. That's just what I needed to hear.
Maybe it is. Your determinism stinks.
Since everything is determined, nothing is up to you.
You leave no room for free will.
Free will is an illusion, I already told you that.
It might be an illusion, but people keep fucking each other.
Look at Eva.
She had it much worse than you with Elena, but she never gave up.
And here we are.
She's had to swallow her pride over and over again because I treated her like shit,
but she hung in there and fought for what she wanted.
-I fought too. -No, you complained, it's not the same.
Eva knew I'd hooked up with the girl from Gay Pride,
and still there she was in the hospital every day
taking care of me.
Eva is fucking awesome.
Damn, Pablo. You're really shitfaced.
Tell me one thing. Will that change anything?
Yeah. When the model came to the hospital and she caught us...
Hold on, the model caught you?
Eva caught us.
Then she disappeared
and that's when I realized how much I missed her.
What's up?
I'm sorry, you can't go in there. Hey, I said you can't... She's in a meeting...
Hey, I said you can't... She's in a meeting... You can't...!
I'm sorry, I couldn't stop him.
I know you don't want to see me or talk to me.
I just wanted to say I'm a jerk. I know I screwed up and I don't deserve you, Eva.
I'm a jerk. I know I screwed up and I don't deserve you, Eva.
But I love you.
I love you and I want to live with you.
And if you give me a chance, I promise I will never do what I did again.
I can't live without you, Eva.
I don't want to live without you.
If you want me to take you back, sign this.
It's a contract obliging you to be faithful with your assets as collateral.
I'm kidding, you dipshit.
The model is gorgeous.
And the one at the parade is too, amazing in bed.
But Eva has... She's...
I've decided to stop fooling around and finally settle down.
I know what you're going to say, but no, I'm serious.
I'll tell you what you're going to say.
That I'm saying this because I'm on crutches and can barely fuck, that the accident affected my brain,
and can barely fuck, that the accident affected my brain,
and can barely fuck, that the accident affected my brain, that I always said this would never happen to me,
not if I could still get women, not before age 50,
not if I could still get women, not before age 50, that I see storm clouds on the horizon and I'm scared of ending up alone,
that settling down means giving up, being stingy,
that it means rejecting our essence,
freedom and true love,
which is absolutely disgraceful,
sad, pathetic... No, that's not what I was going to say.
What's disgraceful and pathetic?
Manel, who else?
I'm telling him that he hides behind his laws so he won't have to do anything.
Manel, you give up when it's time to give up, not before.
In fact, I was thinking something in the bathroom.
That law of quantum entanglement.
You say that if you change the state of one particle,
it changes the state of the other one too, right?
Then if you change yourself to a more positive state,
if you take care of yourself and surround yourself with good vibes,
then maybe Elena won't be as happy and she'll start missing you.
I hadn't thought of that.
It might work, right?
It might work, right? But she has to see you like the Manel from the beginning.
But she has to see you like the Manel from the beginning.
Before you freaked out.
Of course! That's what I've been telling him all along. To have fun, to go out more, damn it.
To go out and get dressed up and flirt with other chicks, right?
Go to the gym, I don't know, live a little. And have sex, right?
Fuck tons of chicks, hump as many as you can.
You see, Manel?
I told you, Eva is the best. How could I not be crazy about her?
You're the best.
We know she's totally hot. If we multiply her attractive mass
We know she's totally hot. If we multiply her attractive mass by the speed of light squared, we get an immeasurable amount of energy.
by the speed of light squared, we get an immeasurable amount of energy.
Hey.
Here we go.
Then there's the type of woman I call a super-massive black hole.
She's not just hot and totally sick,
she thinks she's the center of the galaxy, everything revolves around her.
she thinks she's the center of the galaxy, everything revolves around her. In theory she could even become a worm hole.
She can rip you out of your world and transport you to a parallel universe. She's the hole, I'm...
to a parallel universe. She's the hole, I'm...
the worm.
Do you have a girlfriend and you're a little burnt out?
Girlfriend, me? No, no. Yeah, okay. A few.
Tons. You. What's a girlfriend?
You'll tell me later. Guys are so weird.
Where are you taking me?
I don't know, wherever you want.
Hi, Elena. Manel, hi.
-How are you? -Fine, you?
Fine, awesome. You?
Fine, great.
I'm glad to hear it. I'm great too. -This is Alba. -Hi.
-This is Alba. -Hi.
-You're Elena Baocchi, right? -Yes.
Wow, I didn't know I was going to meet a celebrity!
My latest fling, a student. We're doing great.
Well, we're starting.
She's barely of legal age, but she's very smart.
And we're both into science. She understands almost everything I explain to her.
She understands almost everything I explain to her. Right, Alba?
Alba's cool. Maybe we can have a threesome tonight.
Okay, actually... it's my first time out with her.
All this time reflecting is killing me.
We came here because I wanted to see you. I need to know how much longer...
Do you remember Lorenzo?
Hi.
I remembered you taller.
And you didn't want a boyfriend who was a model or actor.
That's the last thing you wanted.
You wanted a thermodynamic boyfriend, remember?
To explain the laws of physics to you. Well, there's still a lot left to explain...
of physics to you. Well, there's still a lot left to explain...
It was true at the time.
You were nice to me, you explained interesting things to me,
You were nice to me, you explained interesting things to me, we had a great time, but...
we had a great time, but... But people can't always be right.
Who do you mean, you or me?
Manel, you have a problem.
You explain things like your laws are real,
but they're only in your head.
You don't see reality.
I'm not a bunch of organized atoms.
And the proof is I've decided to leave you.
You think you've decided to leave me.
I'm sorry.
I have more things in common with Lorenzo.
He helps me with work, he gives me confidence,
he's calm and sure of himself.
Yeah, I get it.
You're right.
Although you've forgotten one small detail.
It's no coincidence that he's another super-massive body.
You see? That's what I mean, you can't control reality
and you never stop trying to.
When reality resists, you try twice as hard
to make it fit into your shitty laws.
What? Forcing reality to fit?
You don't even understand what you're saying.
Hey! Aren't you going to pay?
Elena, wait!
What do you mean, I force things?
Seriously? Pablo isn't the one you like?
Seriously? Pablo isn't the one you like? It's normal, he's very handsome. Admit it, you like him more.
It's normal, he's very handsome. Admit it, you like him more.
I don't mind, really, we're great friends. You like Pablo more.
Explain it to me? How do I force reality?
This isn't going to work, I'm telling you.
I know it's the second time we've slept together,
but we're totally different. You with that job, traveling all the time,
but we're totally different. You with that job, traveling all the time, and me... You'll get bored with me as soon as the novelty wears off.
and me... You'll get bored with me as soon as the novelty wears off.
Please! Elena!
The one with the hat? Are you sure he wants to make a short film?
Or maybe he wants to get in your pants. I hope the script is good,
Or maybe he wants to get in your pants. I hope the script is good, but come on, a guy who looks like that can't be a good writer.
but come on, a guy who looks like that can't be a good writer.
Everything I did was because I'm crazy about you!
WHERE ARE YOU? WHERE ARE YOU? WHERE ARE YOU? WHERE ARE YOU?
And now you say I force things?
Come on! Elena!
Cut!
Wait. Please, don't leave me.
Elena...
I've already left you, Manel! I've already left you.
You know why? Because that's what you wanted.
You wanted this to fail from the very beginning.
Because you're incapable of winning, you only know how to lose.
Because it confirms how smart you are and how great your theories are.
And I'll tell you another thing.
You can't apply the laws of physics to love!
You can't! It's madness! It's total bullshit!
You can't!
PHASE 3
No need to pretend, Mr. Suarez.
You know that the electromagnetic field passes through walls.
From my office I could detect that today yours is a brown color, nearly black.
I'm surprised I even still have an electromagnetic field.
You might lose it completely when you hear what I have to say.
You can't continue as my teacher's assistant.
University rules prohibit relations between teachers and students.
One of our pupils reported you to the dean.
-But nothing happened... -No, there's no need to explain.
Life, unfortunately, doesn't work like science.
The truth is not what matters most.
Whether it's true or not, there's nothing you can do now.
Don't martyr yourself.
Your pay was crap.
And of course, your classes were in line. Which means they sucked.
Everything passes, Mr. Suarez. Don't forget that.
Even those personal issues that are upsetting you so much.
That law has less exceptions than any other I know of.
Would you like to have lunch with me later?
I'm not trying to make friends,
I only want to make sure you're not planning to pad the statistics on thermodynamic suicides.
to pad the statistics on thermodynamic suicides.
Don't worry, I promise not to, at least until I finish my thesis.
I'm glad to hear it.
In any case, you won't be eligible for that statistic until it's finished.
There you have it, my friends.
The universe is drifting away and it's going to leave us even more isolated.
At one time all of the bodies in the universe were very close,
squeezed together in the form of pure energy.
This beautiful theory foresaw that everyone,
even Elena and me, would be brought back together in a warm and eternal embrace.
The Big Rip. At this point that ending sounds about right to me.
The force causing this acceleration has been called dark energy,
basically because we don't know what it is.
Because it's a mystery.
Maybe I can shed some light on this point.
This force that distances us
is the same force that stopped the Manel-body from truly giving himself to the Elena-body
and seeing things as they really were.
It's the same force that destroys true love and strengthens mediocre relationships, makes us selfish,
and strengthens mediocre relationships, makes us selfish, petty and suspicious.
Fear.
Fear.
Fear is what made me hide behind those laws,
I see it clearly now.
So I wouldn't have to face my own mistakes, my failure.
Elena was right,
thinking they can be applied to love is insane.
Though the coincidences are pretty amazing, aren't they?
What do you think? I'm a mess.
My wife looked to me like a pretty massive star when she was young.
But she didn't turn out so massive to become a supernova.
She came out a brown dwarf.
So it's not that bad, right?
I mean, I thought he would diagnose you with schizophrenia or something.
Are you sure you don't want to take a look? She's tremendous.
You're the one who'll end up schizophrenic
if you keep talking to people while looking at photos of hot women.
I don't want to forget there's a world out there.
Because there's something worse than dark energy.
Shit, Pablo. I can't mix physics with my feelings anymore.
Dark matter is much worse.
No!
You two are having a baby?
Eva was right when she said down deep I'm a great dad.
Congratulations, man!
We don't know what dark matter is either.
What we do know is that the universe behaves like there was more gravity
than corresponds to the bodies we can see.
That means we attract and cling to each other
more than we should according to how attractive we are.
Here's your lunch.
Good lord, what am I doing?
Things were going so well, why did I have to fall in love?
You say that dark energy could be fear. Well, I say that dark matter is necessity.
And necessity sucks. What I liked was entropy, disorder.
That was my territory. And I'll tell you something else:
That was my territory. And I'll tell you something else: with less entropy, there's less freedom, because the particles
with less entropy, there's less freedom, because the particles are tied down!
Isn't that right? Am I right or not?
I don't know, I'm not listening.
For God's sake!
I need entropy back in my life!
There's still one law missing to complete our voyage through science:
the third principle of thermodynamics.
-We'll be at the bar. -Okay.
That's right, we'll never be able to completely forget.
We'll never reach that temperature that stops
our atoms from vibrating when we see her.
Congratulations, Elena.
Thanks for coming. It was very important to me.
Congratulations. I hope you two are very happy.
It's Manel, my ex.
Manel, thanks for coming. I hope you enjoy the party.
-Elena, look who's here! -Victor, great to see you!
-Elena, look who's here! -Victor, great to see you! Congratulations, beautiful.
Hi.
Raquel?
What are you doing here?
Small world, huh?
I'm a friend of Lorenzo's.
Well, actually we had our own quantum entanglement.
He's a good guy. And he's very hot.
But I liked you more.
There you have it. Once thermodynamics comes into your life, it never leaves.
Hey, it's Raquel!
-Pablito! -How are you?
-Pablito! -How are you? The best girlfriend this bum ever had!
This is Eva, the best girlfriend this bum ever had.
-Nice to meet you. -Likewise.
Although, thanks to my therapy, I was able to reflect
and I've discovered the law that truly rules over all of our actions.
It's no doubt the most amazing law of all time.
but it feels kind of like all for naught.
So anything about society, they would... No water, no greens...
...dominated the world that we were like smacked...
It's like, you know, it's futile.
Okay, we're going to get to some greenhouse, too.
I was, like, "Oh, it's kind of better to like get rid of our car."
Just like the carbon footprint.
[Naima] Oh, finally, all these things I want to do, I'm doing,
but it feels kind of like all for naught.
[Marc Maron] Let's see where the smart-ass Duplass brothers are.
What... How does the work break down? What do you do?
[Mark] All of our filming happens right on the set.
Very organic, in the moment, -like a therapy session. -[Marc Maron] Right.
[Mark] We're improvising, we're trying things.
We're getting upset and nervous if it's not working.
If we have a breakthrough, "Holy shit. This is so exciting.
It wasn't even in the script. Let's go get it."
[Jay] You know, it's like the best version
-of what the scene can be, -[Marc Maron] Right.
[Jay] in this moment, with the people we got,
-and where we're at. -[Mark] Yeah.
[Jay] We know what the scene is supposed to be.
So let's just like, see what happens. [Marc Maron] And that's become your style.
[Jay] Yeah.
-[Naima] Hi. -[crew] Hi.
[Naima] Hi, I'm Naima. I'm playing Natalie.
-[crew] How are you doing? -Hello. Good. How are you?
-Good. Welcome to the set. -[Naima] Thank you.
[crew] I think Mark and Jay wanted to talk to you before you
-have your makeup. -Yes, of course, I want to talk to them.
Oh, thank you.
[Mark] You take this, and you don't get anything.
[Jay] Yeah. I feel like all dentists are like that.
-[Naima] Hi, guys. Hi, sorry. -[Mark] Hey.
-[Mark] How are you? -Hey, I'm Jay. Nice to meet you.
-Naima. Nima. You can call me that. -Nima.
-Thank you for being here. -Nima. Yes.
-We loved your tape. It was awesome. -[Naima] Oh, thanks. I'm so glad.
I'm such a big fan of you, guys.
-And, yeah, I'm just honored to be here. -[Mark] We're huge fan of yours.
-How's life? What's going on? -I really am, yeah.
You know, I have been up all night, just kind of getting ready for this.
-Oh, boy. -[Naima] Yeah.
-[Mark] We're kind of like... -[Jay] We're pretty easy about everything.
-Yeah. If you could do something... -Yeah. If we can get to...
-Hey, hello. -Oh, hello, geniuses.
[Mark] Oh, hi, sweetheart.
You know these guys? We have Lindsay and Kumail.
-Kumail. -I'm Naima. You can call me Nima.
-Hey, I'm Lindsay. -[Jay] Nima.
Uh, welcome to the set.
[Kumail] So, we were talking and doing the scene yesterday,
-just felt a little... It was different. -Yeah. -So... -It would be great to block...
-It was fucking incredible. -with the onion rings, don't you think?
-It was fucking incredible. -with the onion rings, don't you think? -I know it's just a prop. -Onion rings?
-I know it's just a prop. -Onion rings?
Yeah. I think there's onion rings on the scene.
It was kind of specifically noted.
I don't even remember. [laughs]
[Jay] I think we just learned that maybe, the onion rings aren't that important. [all laughing]
-So, that's fine. -Right. Yeah.
This is the first time in life that onion rings aren't important.
[all laughing] [Jay] That's right. Yeah.
[all laughing] [Jay] That's right. Yeah. -Right. -Yeah. Yeah.
[Lindsay] There were a number of people who wanted to talk to you.
-[Kumail] Nobody wanted to talk to me. -Yes, they did.
[Lindsay] And I think there were, you know...
a lot of different things going on tonight.
-And you did a good job. -Tell me one... What was the most...
Who was the cutest guy?
[Jay] Okay. I know, before, we had the whole thing,
where it was like, you were pumped that they went to the gay club,
it was a first-time thing,
but, clearly, things have changed,
-and maybe less about the onion rings. -[Mark] Yeah.
I think the thing to remember is that Kumail is crushed when he comes in,
and you need to respond organically to that energy,
and let go of the old version of the scene.
I thought that all it took was me...
to know I was gay, and then I would be gay,
but I don't know how to talk to anyone, I don't...
Are you gay? Well, I think they were...
-Yeah. -[Naima] Yeah.
Yeah.
-Okay, let's pause for a second, guys. -Yeah. We're just gonna pause real quick.
-Okay, let's pause for a second, guys. -Yeah. We're just gonna pause real quick. -We're just gonna come in real quick. -[crew #2] Still rolling. Still rolling.
-We're just gonna come in real quick. -[crew #2] Still rolling. Still rolling.
We'll just... While she, like, um...
-Lindsay. -[Naima] Yeah, when Lindsay is going to touch him, and she makes it more clear...
is going to touch him, and she makes it more clear...
-Right. -that she is hitting on him?
-[Mark] It's not really about her. -[Jay] Your soul mate is coming undone,
and you're here for him.
-Yes. -Right?
And the more you can just be
an empathetic, open human being that is receiving emotion,
that's all we need. -[Mark] All right. -[Jay] Okay, you know what,
-[Mark] All right. -[Jay] Okay, you know what, -[Mark] Why don't we just flip this? -[Jay] she's in a great spot,
-[Mark] Why don't we just flip this? -[Jay] she's in a great spot, -so why not... Okay? -Yeah. So why not just get it? Okay.
-so why not... Okay? -Yeah. So why not just get it? Okay.
You know, we just... We can cross it to you,
You know, we just... We can cross it to you, and literally pops somebody out, which is something...
-[crew #2] Yeah. -[Jay] Okay. Everybody good? Let's get quiet on the set.
And, Nima, you are just chilling.
How many have you put down?
[Kumail] I don't know, but it is double figures.
[Kumail] Onion rings, without the onion in the middle.
That's the worst part. [Lindsay laughing]
[Mark] The onion is where all the calories are, by the way.
That's right. The secret spot.
-[Mark] Hi. How is it going? -[Jay] Hey, what's up?
-Is it okay if I joined you guys? -[Mark] How is it going?
-Yeah, of course. -Yeah.
[Naima] Um... I'm sorry if I was a little intense in there.
-[Naima] No. -Yeah.
[Naima] I mean, it's just...
It's hard to get everyone on the same page.
-[Mark] Yeah. -You know? Um...
Especially when it feels like a little forced. [Mark] Mm-hm.
I really feel like with Kumail and, uh...
-Lindsay. -[Naima] Lindsay. Right.
We're... It's just that we have very different acting styles, I think.
We could, you know, let's talk about process and styles, and stuff like that.
I mean, at the end of the day, you know, we're happy with what they are giving us,
-and it works for us. -You were? Okay.
[Mark] I mean, all I can say is...
Jay and I were part of a writer's room one time.
And we got some notes on a script, and we went in and...
we told our showrunner for an hour why he was wrong,
and why everything he was telling us was idiotic.
And it didn't really go well for us.
And we now realize that we were probably being a little defensive
and a little scared, and that's okay.
[Jay] I mean, we've kind of realized that a lot of times,
when you feel scared or whatever,
you are actually right on the precipice of, like, an emotional breakthrough.
Yeah, I'm not...
I feel good. I feel okay, um, about it.
-[Mark] It was so close... -[Jay] Lights up.
[Lindsay] All right, you guys are all up there.
[Mark] Yeah, and even the rings in the movie... [Lindsay] Yes.
-Yes. You know that, right? -[Mark] Totally.
-And... yeah. -[Lindsay] It was like...
It doesn't say, if you can guys have that...
[Naima] I have never been on a set like that,
because on commercials, it's not like that.
But like the way that Mark and Jay worked, it was like very, it was so collaborative right away.
It just made me feel like, "Oh, this is what it's supposed to be like."
-Do you feel good about it? Like... -Yeah. I feel great about it.
[Ellen] Do you think I look okay?
Yeah, you look fine.
[Naima] Have you been talking to this girl? -Yes. We've been texting. -[Naima] Mm.
We saw each other on the internet,
-and, you know. -[Naima] Right. Naturally, you know.
Of course, I mean, it's all in the hopes
of getting into some kind of a relationship, right?
But then, you wonder like, who did they actually vote for? You know, are they...
[Ellen] Please don't bring up the...
-[Naima] What? -like the world is going in the shitter. You don't want to talk about what's actually happening in the world?
You don't want to talk about what's actually happening in the world?
I don't want to talk... Not on my first date with this girl,
that I'm like, hopefully, going to like. Do we have a rule book? Can you give me a check book
Do we have a rule book? Can you give me a check book [Ellen laughs] of what I'm supposed to talk about?
What? What is happening?
That fact that you are not this type of lass. I see.
[Marguerite] How are you guys doing? Give the band a big round of applause.
Are you ready to party?
Okay, I have to bring this young lady up.
She always bringing her ass in here, wanting to sing with us.
She is from Spain.
I'm gonna let her do this one damn song.
And, uh, her name is Sergio with an O.
Sergio! [applause] Yeah!
[woman #1] Yeah!
[Faye] Sergio!
Hi.
This is my first song, I have written all in English.
And it is the first time I'm going to sing it to you.
So I'm, like, a little bit nervous, but I think it's gonna be so cool.
[Sergio] I hope you like it.
-♪ Boom, my voice says make room ♪ -Make room!
♪ May the hand combat the gloom ♪
♪ When the ant comes creeping up I spread my arms ♪
♪ So I would assume The depth of its doom ♪
♪ With the brightness I resume ♪
♪ And I grow green leaves on my branches ♪
♪ It's the way my blossoms bloom ♪
♪ Bloom, bloom, bloom ♪
Okay, wait, wait, wait! I get it.
Andrea, do you think that's working?
Oh, she's the only one.
-You are the truthful girl. -Yes, I am.
[Sergio] Thank you so much.
It is very hard to have friends that tell you the truth.
Okay, let's make a deal.
Which is, like, a singer you would go crazy about? Stevie Nicks.
Okay, let's pretend I'm Stevie Nicks. You like that?
-[fan] I love it. -[Sergio] Okay.
I am going to come down right now, and kiss you.
Oh, my god.
We have a date.
Should we do it?
Should we do it, yeah? Let's go.
-[woman #2] Yeah! Get it! -[woman #3] Yeah!
That was so beautiful!
[Sergio] Come close, come close! Come close! Come close here! Come here! Let's kiss!
Come on! Kiss!
Yeah!
Now, let's finish!
♪ So I'm told I've always been ♪
♪ With flashing flood and whipping wind ♪
♪ I live with everything ♪
[Naima] I mean, it's ultimately a Ponzi scheme
that they created for our environment.
-You know? -[Nathalie] What?
Well, meaning, that like past generations,
-the amount of coal that they burn... -[Nathalie] Yeah?
[Naima] It costs more the effects of climate change
than it costs to get it out of the ground to use. [Nathalie] What?
It's just that all our natural resources were being used, in, you know, your guys' heyday.
And now, it's like, if you took us out to dinner, we're like,
"Order everything you want, like lobster tail, dessert, it's on us."
And then you guys, like,
snuck off to the bathroom and never came back.
And like, money doesn't exist anymore.
-So, what is the solution? -[Naima] It was just a different time.
After our natural resources are gone, it's just all gone.
[Nathalie] There has to be a... Jesus.
[Nathalie] There has to be a... Jesus. -You've got a dark view of the world. -[Stacey] Wow.
-My god! -[Naima] I'm just saying New York City
is like all these buildings that are so tall and beautiful.
But here, we're gonna be like fighting for trees.
-[Nathalie] You're always into... -Hey, do you wanna dance with me?
-[Stacey] That sounds like a good idea. -[Nathalie] Oh, good.
-I'm a little busy over here. -That sounds like a perfect idea
-They don't understand you. -to get your prime youth going.
-[Stacey] Go on. -Hey, come on. Let's go dance.
-[Stacey] Go do it. Shake a leg. -Yeah.
-[Stacey] Come on, now. Go shake a leg. -[Margaret] Yeah.
-Okay. Okay. -[Nathalie] Okay. All right.
You guys watch my jacket, though.
We will watch your natural resources over here.
-That's right. -Don't worry about your natural resources.
I'm Sergio.
Hi. Sergio, yeah.
I'm Naima. You can call me Nima.
-Nima? -Nima. Yeah.
-Are you gay? -[Naima] Yeah.
I liked your show.
Right here.
[Kathy] I have... I know someone who does neat plant stuff. It was amazing.
[male friend] My brother wants a nursery.
[Faye] Maxene?
-[Naima] She's so cute. -Yeah.
I need more plates.
Really sweet.
[Kathy] This one, you see, is Marshal.
[Naima] Wait, do you... These were all your dogs?
-[Sergio] Yeah. I foster them. -[Naima] Oh. Right, right.
And then I find...
[Sergio] These are the final owners.
-[Naima] Oh, like the happy owners? -[Sergio] Yes.
I love you. Do you like dogs?
Yeah.
Yeah, of course.
-Yeah, they're great. -[Kathy] It's okay if you don't.
-[Faye] What happened to your friend? -[Naima] Um, she was on a date, though.
-Glad it was going well. -Oh, cool.
Give him a kiss.
[Kathy] I don't care, as long as you're committed.
I am scared of him. Can we just... [Sergio laughs]
Five, four, and go. [plays guitar]
♪ Everybody is watching, go We're judging you ♪
-I'm just kidding. -♪ No pressure ♪
-♪ Be explosively talented, go ♪ -We do this all the time.
-[Sergio] Yeah. Totally. -♪ We barely know you, go ♪
Anything.
♪ I haven't been to the dentist In over seven years ♪
[Kathy] ♪ But I think that is okay ♪
♪ I feel truly superhuman every day ♪
[Kathy] So good.
♪ If I said right now What I really meant ♪
♪ I guess I would fall right down The stairs ♪
♪ And touch your head ♪
[male friend] ♪ I would really love To touch your head right now ♪
♪ I would really love ♪
[Naima] We weren't officially together or anything, but it just felt good.
And then, she kind of, in one swoop,
was like pretending we were just friends who had never shared this intimate moment.
Then I pulled back,
because I guess I don't want to get hurt or something.
Susana has always, um...
-Who's Susana? -[Sergio] My mom.
Oh, your mom. Right, right.
[Sergio] And she has always said to me,
try not to go for, for the easy thing.
Like, everyone is doing this, why you should do the same?
-Mm. -[Sergio] And that works on love.
You can't play it safe in love.
-[Naima] Yeah. -You have to just go and jump.
[Sergio] You know?
Do you want food?
[Naima] No, this is good.
So I was dating this girl, and after three years,
I find out it was a waste of time.
[Sergio] So it was so fucked up,
like why I spent three fucking years of my life with this asshole.
-Right. -So, Susana, one day, said to me,
"You know this kind of couples that they spend ten years together,
and then they get married?
-They divorce in one year." -Right.
So just get married right away.
Yeah, do everything you want the second you want.
-Yeah. Why would... -Yeah.
And you just get like nervous
-thinking about it before you do. -Exactly.
Just go and have fun with the things you have right there.
Yeah, like this.
This whole night, we should do this, for, like, 24 hours straight.
-Like, you and me? -[Naima] Yeah.
-Eating chips, drinking juice... -[Sergio] Yeah.
having sex.
Let's do it.
-Now? -I want to know you. For real.
You got four hours out of me so far.
I want 24 hours. [Naima chuckles]
And I want to come with you every hour.
-Mm-hm. -[Sergio] Isn't it amazing?
-It's like dating ten years. -We're like... Yeah. I mean, we have to go to the bathroom.
-Sometimes, an hour in the bathroom. -I want to see you taking a shit.
-Yeah. -[Sergio] I want to see you getting angry.
We can do it.
We can fucking skip time.
Um, yeah.
I just have to work on Monday, so I can't. I can't.
Actually, you know what?
For your art, to be busy with life, it's the best thing you can do.
I know, but I feel like our whole bodies are going to be out of whack by then.
[Naima] I don't know. It's the biggest job I've ever had.
So, it's just...
-I can help you. -I have to...
I don't know... I... I practice alone.
It's embarrassing.
[Naima] I can't.
I just can't.
But a full night is a deal, though.
But...
Next time.
Yeah.
Instead of, like, going through the format of, like, regular dating
and, like, faking it, texting and stuff, you know,
we would just be like, we will just be there all the time.
[Naima] I kind of think it would be an amazing way -to get to know somebody. -Hm.
I mean, I think I was like, realizing I was like, I haven't...
said yes to anything and someone,
especially with somebody else, because like,
no one is even close...
to her.
It's like she lives in a way that she doesn't question anything about herself.
And when I was around her, I didn't... either.
You should ask her to go get some coffee,
like, tomorrow morning and just... [phone ringing] Oh, shit.
Oh, it's my manager.
-All right, let's go. I'm starving. -Yeah. Okay.
Okay.
Right, yeah.
Yeah. Oh, wait, it's transferring...
It's transferring to the car coordinates...
Hello?
-Hey, yeah, yeah, yeah. -[manager] Are you there?
Sorry. So, what were you saying?
Maybe I'm soft-pedaling it for you, but they're gonna replace you.
What?
[manager] I know. I feel horrible. I know you were so excited about this,
and, you know, sometimes, on the first day,
when it's just not right on an indie, you can't...
There's just no time, and so, they have to move on,
and they don't love you any less, but it's not gonna work.
Okay. Um...
[Naima] I'll call you back.
Yeah. Okay.
-[manager] Sorry. -It's okay. Yeah.
[Naima] Fuck.
[Naima] Hi.
It's me. [chuckles] Sorry, I didn't text before I came over, I just, um...
I was trying not to think so much about it and just come here.
[Naima] And...
I needed to come and say sorry about what happened last night
and just like leaving all awkwardly and, you know, now I'm here.
We can hang out, you know,
and continue where we left off and maybe even do the...
-Can I come in? -No.
Okay.
[Naima] You know, I feel...
This is the first place I drove. You know what I mean?
I was just like, I wanted to...
[Sergio] I'm working on the backyard. -You have to go around. -Oh.
[Naima] I know I fucked up. But I'm here, I'm back.
I want to stay up 24 hours with you, 48 hours.
I haven't been able to stop thinking about it.
We've got to do it.
What was your breakfast about to make you change your mind like this?
I had a high protein breakfast. Normally, I just have sugar, but...
I'm serious.
What changed?
The truth is that I've never actually...
gone close enough to somebody to love them.
That's the truth.
[Naima] So...
It's just new for me, that's all. But that doesn't mean I don't want to try.
You know, I felt finally free for a second last night,
like I was actually being myself.
And I just want to do that.
So, when you feel free, you just run away?
I have. Yeah.
-[Sergio] Will you do that again? -No.
-[Sergio] Promise? -Yes.
Promise?
I promise.
Okay.
-Okay? -[Sergio] Yeah.
[Naima] Let me just look at the clock.
I arrived at...
-Near 7:00 p.m. -[Sergio] Mm-hm.
Okay.
[Naima] And sex every hour, right?
-Can I touch you now? -No.
-[Sergio] ♪ I might became ♪ -Just go. [Sergio] ♪ Just a thin air ♪
♪ I think I'm nothing ♪
[Sergio] ♪ Just trying not to be around ♪
♪ Struggling with it ♪
-[Sergio] Hi. -[Naima] Hi.
[Sergio] Hi, hi.
-What's that? -It's a song. Look at it.
This is the song I wanted to sing in the showcase.
-Oh, yeah? -Yeah.
[Sergio] Just... You play the piano?
Not really, though.
-[Sergio] Oh, you were playing the piano. -I was just touching it.
You have to help me with this song.
-I know you're good, and I've heard you. -[Naima] Okay.
I don't know. I can't. My ears aren't too good, but...
[Sergio] Mm... Liar. Come on.
♪ Struggling with it ♪
♪ Quite a try and true turn ♪
♪ Oh, how long it takes ♪
-[Sergio] That's good. -Okay. Let's see if I can do it.
[Naima chuckles] Come on, do it with both hands.
[Sergio] ♪ Maker of mistakes ♪
♪ I grew out and I failed it ♪
-[Sergio] ♪ Struggling with it ♪ -[Naima] ♪ Struggling with it ♪
-♪ Quite try and true ♪ -♪ Quite try and true ♪
Like harmonize?
♪ How long it takes ♪ [tapping]
[Naima] It's beautiful. You have to sing this song for me.
-[Naima] Okay. -Okay?
-Both of us again or I'll just sing it? -No.
-Just you. -[Naima] Okay.
Okay. [chair rasps]
[Naima] ♪ Just back from the pain ♪
♪ Trying out a new breath ♪
♪ Costumes so absurd ♪
♪ And when you fail ♪
♪ New song ♪
More mango? Good. Ready?
Wait. I... [laughing]
-Wait. Maybe we have to... -It's like you sucked this puree
out of my mouth. [both laughing]
-[Naima] Is Sergio your real name? -[Sergio] Yeah.
Why did your mom name you Sergio?
[Sergio] She wanted a boy, but I was a girl.
And then she thought,
"Okay I'm going to keep Sergio in the middle name." Hm.
And when I was a kid, and I wanted to have Susana's attention,
I take a shit.
My shit was little shit because I was a kid.
Sure.
And then I put those little shits, because my shits were like this...
Yeah. And you, like, cut it up like a sausage or something?
Like a sausage.
So I put it on the floor, [Naima chuckles]
-What? -and Susana always thought it was the dog.
[Sergio] Nima.
Look at me. Look.
You are so beautiful.
You are so, so...
so beautiful.
Say it.
Shout it.
Shout it...
to the fucking moon.
I can't!
Yeah, you can.
Say it to her.
-And you have to say it with me. -Yeah.
-I am so beautiful! -She is so beautiful!
Stop being jealous!
Stop it! [Naima laughing]
The first time I discovered masturbating was on a sheepskin rug.
I would, like, rub up on it while looking at myself on the mirror.
I did the same with pillows.
-[Naima] With pillows? -Mm-hm. With my cousin.
[Sergio] But then, her boyfriend came and saw us.
-Really? -Yeah.
Is your boyfriend still there?
He's still there.
[Naima] So my friend had her third kid.
And I was like, "How can you still be having kids?
It's like you know the world that you're birthing them into."
I just think it's really selfish.
This is the kind of stuff you were telling these ladies at the bar.
-[Sergio] Why? -[Naima] Why would somebody have ten kids?
This thing is born into the world, and it's like ruining their lives.
-And they just pretend slowly... -Stop.
that it doesn't.
Okay.
Don't you think every parent hates their kid?
No.
People eventually are going to be starving.
We have an end, you know. There's an end. So, what can we do until now?
-Get depressed about it? -I think I feel more connected to people
when I feel like we're both on the same page.
I think you depress people when you're talking about that.
So I'm not supposed to depress people?
[Naima] I'm supposed to be like...
-What do you think? -Make them happy?
Every day I wake up, and I'm like reading the news,
and it's just like one more depressing thing after another.
What are you doing?
Are you doing something?
You can help Maxene.
I feel like I just wanna turn into a soldier
when someone knocks on my door one day and is like,
"It's over. Here's your weapon. Let's go." And I'd go, but like until then I'm... [rustles]
-I'm knocking at your door. -[Naima] Oh! God, no. [laughs]
Stop! Stop. Let's be friends.
The war is not happening yet.
Not on my face. Oh, my god. It's so disgusting!
It's wet, it's hot. It's wet, it's hot.
-It's hot. It's hot. -[Sergio] Okay, okay, I'll stop.
I'll stop. Promise. Promise.
Ah! Seriously, stop. [Sergio laughing]
[Sergio] Tell me, what is more scary, the end of the world or this shit?
Right now, this shit. Right now.
Are there people back there?
[Sergio] Let's go and do it in front of them. [Naima] What?
-No. -[Sergio] Yes.
We hide.
Okay.
[Naima] Just act normal.
"It's so good to see you."
"Yeah, it's been too long."
"I thought you changed your number or something."
"No, I've just been so wrapped up in work these days."
"I remember the last time I saw you was at Jeremy's house
when we did sake bombs, and then I threw up on Cindy's jacket."
"You always seemed a bit to be very sociable."
"I was just slutty, is the truth, but it's worked out for me now."
"Slutty?"
Sergio, I have to get one take. [chuckles]
Just because the boy is saying to you you're sociable,
you say you're slutty?
I mean, I don't know. It's not a good movie.
If it's not a good movie, then why do you want to do it?
Because I need a job.
You should really do stuff you want to do.
If not, you are just giving these people just your talent for nothing.
-Yeah. -You are giving out a presentation of who you are.
I think you just e-mail these guys
-and tell them, "Look." -I can't e-mail. The last time I told...
-[Sergio] "You are a fucking misogynist." -No.
[Sergio] And just go and start writing your own movie.
Telling something you have inside...
-[Naima] Recently, when I told somebody... -not just...
what I thought about them, I got fired.
You got fired because you said them what you thought?
Yeah. I didn't think it was going well,
so, at lunch, I talked to them about it, and it just did not go well.
Okay, then, fuck this tape. Come. E-mail these guys.
-No, I have to do this tape. -Really.
I'm telling you, you should e-mail these guys that fired you,
and tell them why they are wrong.
I mean, they won't take you seriously if you don't say no.
[Sergio] They fired you.
They will never ever hire you again.
So, what can you lose?
Yeah.
-[Sergio] Tell them! -Okay. -[Sergio] Just write it. -So, okay.
-As an artist... -And I'm talking to an artist, too.
-As an artist speaking... -To an artist.
to other artists,
because there's two of them, right, other artists.
You know that the most important is to be honest with work.
"You know that the most important..."
I want to be...
I want to work on movies that respect...
-I will make movies. -Honesty. "I will make movies."
And they will respect artists.
"And they will respect artists."
And then I will come to your fucking door...
-"And then I will come..." Okay. -And knock, knock.
"Come to your fucking door. Knock, knock?" Okay, where does that one end?
"I'm going to come to your door. Knock, knock," and what?
And knock, knock to your door and tell you...
Fuck you? [chuckles]
-Yeah! I mean... -[Naima] Okay.
"I will make movies, ones that respect artists.
And then I will come to your door."
All caps, "Knock, knock...
and say, 'Fuck you.'"
[inhales] Okay.
-I will send it? -[Sergio] Yeah.
-Wait, wait, no, no, no. Wait. -Okay, what are you gonna do?
-Record a sound. Are you recording? -What? Oh, okay, yeah, yeah.
[Sergio] Send it. Send it.
-It's 2:00 a.m. -[Sergio] So, what?
We have 17 hours to go.
[Naima] I once met an older gentleman. He was like a respected writer.
I was a fan of his.
And we started e-mailing and it was kind of just like pen pals.
And they were kind of funny. They were like dirty e-mails.
And then I was in New York once, told him I was there,
and he wrote back right away, like, "Come over to my house."
You know, he opened the door, he had this real fake sleek air about him.
Where he was kind of like leaning on the door like, "Come on in."
But, in that moment, I realized...
I had complete, like, control over him. You know?
And I remember his kids were sleeping in the other room,
so we had to go into the guest room.
But you were there to fuck him?
I didn't decide it, but once I walked in, I was.
[Naima] I was like, that's what's gonna happen.
-[Sergio] Yeah. -Like I was there to deliver something.
In exchange of what?
Uh, it was like I wanted his respect or something.
[Naima] But I definitely didn't get it by...
-having sex with him. -[Sergio] Mm... Yeah.
-Was it good? -No, it was terrible.
-[Sergio] Really? -Yeah, it was really bad.
Fuck, that sucks.
He had started to go down on me, and...
came up, and he was, like, disturbed all of a sudden.
[Naima] He...
pretty much said that, um...
there was too much, like...
uh, smegma.
-[Naima] It's gross. It's like... -Soft?
-Yeah, it's a little like cottage cheesy. -Like manteca de pato?
[in Catalan] Manteca de pato?
Manteca de pato.
Manteca de pato.
It's like duck butter.
Duck butter.
-Duck, quack, quack? -Right.
-I like that better. -[Sergio] So, what happened? -He didn't like that? -He didn't like my duck butter.
-He didn't like that? -He didn't like my duck butter.
And, so, he kind of like, awkwardly stood up and left the room.
You should send him...
a box with a bunch of manteca de pato.
-Just like a gift wrap? -[Sergio] Yeah.
A present for his kids.
-They can eat it, like cheese. -I'll say, "Happy Thanksgiving." Yeah.
Duck butter for your kids.
[Sergio] So...
-I wanted to do a record, -[Naima] Mm-hm? and I had no money.
[Sergio] So, I made a deal with this guy, a very successful businessman.
"You pay for my record for three months, and then I can be your girlfriend."
That was our deal.
What would you have to do with him?
-I lived with him. -[Naima] Mm.
I slept with him.
[Sergio] For three months.
And, at the end, he stopped paying for my record.
-Oh, man. -[Sergio] Yeah, I know.
So, I taped him having sex with me.
And then I said to him, "Okay, if you don't pay for my record...
I'm going to show this to everyone."
[Sergio] So he paid.
Yeah.
[Naima] And then you just stopped it and left?
Yeah.
All right.
-[Sergio] What's that? -[Naima] It's my face.
I love it.
I picture myself having sex with a lot of people.
-Yeah? -Yeah.
Like with my friends.
-I think it's so hot. -Yeah.
-[Sergio] Are you okay? -Yeah. I think I've...
[Naima] I've already come too much, I can't...
[Sergio sighs] I'm gonna do it again.
-Maybe I just need a little break. -No problem. Don't worry.
You were sleeping like this.
-Yeah. -You looked weird.
[Sergio] You were so sleepy.
-Yeah, I feel really... -[Sergio] You're welcome.
[Naima] No, no.
Stop it! Please just stop. Stop. Stop.
Fuck off.
[Sergio] Are you okay?
Yeah. I, um...
I don't really feel so good. Like...
[Naima] I just feel a little, um...
I don't know. I don't know.
-It just feels like... -Because of the sleep?
[Naima] I think it's a combination of the sleep and just...
staying awake. I feel like I don't have a lot, um...
a lot of brain power left to...
to even, like, communicate anything.
Is it because of me or something?
-Is it because you feel weird about me? -No, no, no.
-But if you are, you can say it. -No, that's totally not the reason. No.
What's going on, then?
You know, it is just like, you know, today was like...
I got fired earlier today.
-[Naima] And when I woke up like that... -You got fired today?
-[Naima] Yeah, this morning. And it's... -This morning, you got fired.
[Sergio] Because you said "recently."
Yeah.
[Sergio] So, you got fired, and then you came here?
There was time in between, but, yeah.
You came here because you got fired.
-No, it's not the reason why I came here. -[Sergio] Yeah.
It is.
No.
No, it's not like... I mean, I found out this morning...
[Sergio] I think you should go.
-Now. -[Naima] Yeah.
It cleanses.
Why do we have to stay up all night?
-[Sergio] We have to. -[Naima] Yes.
Are you close with your mom?
Yeah. We talk every day.
Yeah?
-[Sergio] She's coming. -What?
She's coming for the showcase, so I have to have breakfast with her tomorrow.
-[Naima] Oh, no. -Today.
Right.
Where am I supposed to go until seven tomorrow?
[Naima] What do we do? Do we break up?
[Sergio] I don't know.
You will be there in the showcase?
Promise? Okay?
Of course.
-Susana, when I was four, -Mm? we were on the street.
And I said to her that I wanted a normal mom.
And she said to me, "Okay. Just go and find her,"
and she left me in the middle of the street.
When you were four?
I spent the whole afternoon trying to find the way back home.
And then a neighbor found me.
And my mom said to me, "Did you find her?"
And I was like...
And she said, "Good, because I don't want a normal daughter."
She said, "I don't want a normal daughter"?
[Sergio] Yeah.
How about your mom?
She's pretty like...
kind of strong, loud lady.
[Naima] From the Middle East. She came over, like, in the '70s.
But I got along better with my dad.
Why?
She didn't really like the way that I was like...
kind of a tomboy in school, and I don't know.
Are you angry with her?
I think I have a lot of anger with her, but I like...
[Sergio] Have you talked about that with her?
No.
Yeah, but that's inside.
[Sergio] The anger is there...
all the time.
Have you done meditation?
[Naima] No, I haven't. It kind of freaks me out, you know.
-You do it? -[Sergio] Yeah.
When I'm getting anxious, like...
Like an anxiety attack.
I start thinking like a river is crossing over me,
and I start describing this river.
And then...
I try to change the river into a new river.
-How is your river? My river's so brown. -[Naima] Oh, it's chunky.
-It's brown. -Yeah, I got brown chunks full of...
All the time, doing that, I cover up my... [blows air]
All the time, doing that, I cover up my... [blows air] Yeah. It's loud, it's choppy.
Okay, sit up.
-Okay, you have your mom in front of you. -[Naima] Oh, good.
Just tell her all the shit you want to make sure she knows.
"Susana, you're fucking crazy, leaving me at four years old in the fucking street.
You're fucking crazy, Mom." For example.
Okay.
I think you're really angry
about how your mother was to you, and you take it out on me,
and you're just a mean, stupid bully who teases your innocent daughter.
Just go and tell her things.
"I think you are jealous of me. And that's why you're just talking to me,
-every..." You have to keep going. -Right, right, right. Sorry.
-I think you don't take care of yourself. -Yeah.
You're super unhealthy and you take it out on me, and you blame me
-for not being in better shape. -You're a fucking narcissist.
-You smell disgusting all the time, -Fucking ideas.
-and you blame me for smelling bad. -I don't fucking lie.
-Always, no matter what, it's never good. -Maybe you should be proud about me
-Always, no matter what, it's never good. -Maybe you should be proud about me for one fucking day.
-You never accomplish shit. -Yeah, you should be fucking proud
-And you never have loved my dad, ever. -of me for one fucking day.
-And you never have loved my dad, ever. -of me for one fucking day. -And you pretended like you have always, -I don't want to be like you.
-And you pretended like you have always, -I don't want to be like you. and it's fake, and he doesn't like you. He has never liked you!
and it's fake, and he doesn't like you. He has never liked you!
That's because you tell me to have kids, ever!
That's because you tell me to have kids, ever! I'm never gonna have fucking kids until you're dead!
-What time is it? -It's like six something.
Susana is coming.
Like, for breakfast?
[Sergio] This house is a mess.
Why don't we just... Why don't we go to my house?
I have a bunch of food at my house.
My house is like, clean like a hotel because like I barely live in it.
[Naima] What do you think? Is that a good idea? I can cook.
I go by my bike.
-I'm following you. -All right.
[Sergio] Oh, my god!
Okay, let go.
I'm going to jump inside of you!
Sergio, no, no, no! It's too close. [Sergio screaming]
[Naima] No, stay at least that far.
[bicycle clangs] Okay, all good.
Don't go inside.
-[Sergio] Come on, open the door. -[Naima] That's enough.
[Sergio] Open the door.
Just let me get the... [keys jangle]
Oh, my god.
-[Sergio] Do you live alone? -[Naima] Yep.
It's so big.
My dad got it for me. He bought a lot of real estate years ago,
and gave me and my sister a house.
[Naima] Are you judging me for having such a nice house?
[Sergio] No. I want it for me.
Whoa, what is that?
-It's a painting my dad did. -[Sergio] It's depressing, right?
[Naima] I don't know. I kind of like it.
I don't understand how can you live with this.
I know, but I feel bad, like, my dad would be sad if it was gone.
[Sergio] You have to just take this ugly stuff out of your life.
This is what is wrong with your life.
-Just take it off. -Yeah.
Sergio. Whoa!
-Sergio. Sergio. -♪ Flying high ♪
[Naima] I guess I'm never having my dad over again.
[Sergio] I don't care if it's your dad's picture.
It's just depressing, so just fuck it.
[Sergio] Burn it.
I feel like so powerful in this place.
It's so white.
-We have like an hour. -Yeah.
-Time to play. -Okay.
What?
Okay, it's okay. What's wrong?
-Breathe. -[Naima] It's nothing.
I'm just tired.
-Are you sure? -Yeah.
It's me. You can tell me.
We okay?
Yeah, we're okay. Yeah.
I just... Yeah, I don't know.
I'm just tired.
Susana is coming, you know?
-Yeah. -Don't worry.
-It's okay. -Okay.
-Okay, let's calm down. -[Naima] Yeah.
I'll take a shower, you go cook something, and then Susana arrives.
-Yeah. -Can you be here with me for that?
-I'm sorry. Yeah. I'll be okay. -Okay.
-Yeah. -Sure?
-Mm-hm. -Okay.
Yeah.
Okay. [Naima sniffles]
[Sergio] Nima, do you have another brush? Look.
What kind of a fucking brush is... Look! Come, look at this.
It's fucking broken!
Here, it's... Stop, stop, stop.
Hold it, so it doesn't...
Sorry, I thought I had more breakfast-y food.
I'm making like gnocchi and salad.
Do you think Susana is gonna eat this?
-And I have like pesto sauce. -Yeah, I know what is gnocchi, I know.
Is she going to be okay with, like, just having, like, some random girl here?
She's coming over to like a stranger's house.
She doesn't know me, right?
[Sergio] No, no. She's so cool, she's so good with everything.
She just deals with everything.
Fuck!
[Sergio] What's that?
The music.
It's the song called the...
"Ah! Sweet Mystery of Life."
It's like a really old, like,1920 song, but covered by, I don't know.
-Is that... Is this all right? -A cover?
Yeah. But the first version sounds, like, completely different than this one.
You don't like it?
I don't do covers.
You don't do covers?
[Sergio] No.
People who does covers, they are just doing bullshit,
copying someone else.
What about Elvis?
-What? -Almost every song he did was a cover.
Do you think that his... the way he sang those songs had nothing to do with how beautiful they were?
had nothing to do with how beautiful they were?
If anyone else sing them, they wouldn't be good songs.
And, yeah, he's an interpreter, not an artist.
[Sergio] The Beatles were creating something new,
not fucking Elvis.
-[Sergio] Do you have wine? -Yes.
Do you have water?
Yes.
[Naima] I'm gonna have to fill it up.
[Naima] What? What's missing?
That's it, right? That's it?
I mean, what else do you...
-Yeah, that looks great. -Yeah, yeah.
Okay.
You know, we haven't had sex in like two-and-a-half hours.
[Naima] Hi.
She's, uh, Nima.
-It's nice to meet you. -It's nice to meet you, too.
[Susana] You will love it.
Have you heard any of her latest songs?
-Yeah, I have. Yeah, I love them. -[Susana] And what do you think?
-Yeah, I have. Yeah, I love them. -[Susana] And what do you think? Because she did such beautiful things when she started.
She was totally uncompromising, so strong.
-And then... -[Sergio] But now, I'm writing a lot here.
-[Susana] Really? -Yeah, and I'm painting a lot too.
[Susana] And you think that you found your voice here?
You have something to say here?
[Sergio] Speak in English.
[Sergio] In English, Nima is right here.
[Sergio] Susana!
[Susana] Come on. I didn't want to upset you.
Well...
One thing I was thinking about, you know, I belong to a generation,
we grew up without AIDS and all these things.
We could allow ourselves a lot of things that these days young people cannot do.
And, you know, I'm a Mediterranean,
and there is this tradition in the Mediterranean countries
that in the spring, everybody used to gather in the fields and just fuck.
They thought that that was what made the earth grow.
And I like to keep that tradition alive, you know?
-Mm. -[Susana] Sex is so enjoyable,
and I think the reason why is that it's so impersonal.
It's not like love, you know,
like you don't have to be peaking up and, "I need you," no.
It's more free.
Sergio and I love arguing about that.
I hope you're enjoying her.
[Susana] Okay, are you better now?
So, are you also an artist, Naima?
I... Yeah, I'm an actress.
-[Naima] Mainly, yeah. -She also plays the piano.
[Susana] She does?
Yeah.
[Susana] Sergio? I'm sorry, I forgot my iPad.
Sergio?
Sergio?
[Sergio] Thank you. Thank you, Nima.
It's like...
something happened.
I don't what is it, but it's like...
my mind... [blows air]
You're so, so beautiful.
It's almost hard to touch you.
It's like I'm, like, here, and it's like...
it's hard to touch you.
I've already started writing a song about us.
-Really? -Yeah.
What is it about?
It's about you and me falling in love for the first time.
A lot like we have invented falling in love.
You know, we invented it, and then the rest just copied us.
Like doing covers of our falling in love.
I'm sorry about it, about the covers before.
-It's okay. -I'm sorry.
Hug me.
I gotta go pee.
Then go pee here.
-Pee here. -Pee here?
I'll come pee with you.
I'll be right back.
[Sergio] No. Stop, no!
Oh, my god. Okay.
[Sergio] Nima?
Are you okay?
Yeah.
Sure? Yeah.
-Okay. -[Naima] Yeah.
-You know what, for Christmas? -[Naima] No.
Kathy and Faye, they're doing a road trip for Europe.
A road trip in Europe? Wow.
We should go with them.
[chuckles] Maybe.
-Maybe? Okay. -Yeah, we still got, you know...
It's in the future. We can figure it out later.
-Okay. -[Naima] Yeah.
Okay. [chuckles]
You've never like...
been with Kathy or Faye before, have you?
-I've been with them, yeah. -[Naima] Like...
Like?
Physically? Like, have you had sex with them before?
No.
-No? -No.
[Sergio] Why?
I don't know. I was just thinking, like...
maybe they...
could come for, like, the end.
You know? Like the last two hours or something like...
I've never done an orgy. It's hard to believe, huh?
Do you want to do an orgy now?
I don't know. I think it could be interesting.
I don't know. It could be just like a nice bookend.
It could be really fun.
I'll be right up.
I don't want to do an orgy.
Okay.
Okay. Let me pee. Yeah, then let's talk about it.
Yeah, let me just...
Yeah?
-Are you okay? -Yeah.
-Are you sure? -Yes.
-Okay. Okay. -Yeah.
Sergio? What are you doing?
[Sergio] Are you okay?
Yes, I'm fine, Sergio.
But I'd rather not be in the bathroom.
Can you let go of the handle, please?
Why do you want to do an orgy?
It was just an idea! I mean, we were trying to...
I don't know. I don't think that seems like the weirdest thing.
[Naima] You know, it's just something new that we could do together.
I thought you would be into it.
I thought it would bring us closer.
But that's it.
I just want us to be closer, Sergio. That's all.
Sergio?
Sergio?
It's okay.
It's okay.
-You seem good. -Yeah.
It's really a bit, you know, we've had little naps, but it's been pretty...
-Yeah, well... -Yeah.
[Naima] Have you guys done something like this before? Or...
-It has been a while. -Yeah, I've like, failed...
at it a few times.
It seems like a good time. I know it's midday, but, um...
[Kathy] I prefer that.
-Yeah. -[Kathy] It's so cliché, like, at night.
-[Faye] I like to see everything. -Yeah.
-So, are we on a timer? -Yeah.
-We can start. -We could just do...
the old hello.
-[Faye] I love you. -[Kathy] I love you.
[Faye] Oh, hi.
Is it weird?
Hey, you okay?
Hey, yeah.
-[Sergio] Yeah? -Yeah. I...
[Naima] I'm sorry about that.
-No problem. -It's okay.
Come.
[Naima] Yeah, I just, um...
got distracted.
-[Kathy] Which happens. -Yeah.
-[Kathy] I mean, I think it's natural. -No, it had nothing to do with you, guys.
I just, um...
[Naima] I'm really glad you guys are here.
-[Faye] Yeah. -Because I think that...
[Naima] Because you guys are close to Sergio, just like this has been a lot...
for us.
And I think that if you guys stayed, we could talk like...
We don't...
You know, what are we really gonna offer?
Right? I mean, I just feel like...
-[Naima] I think just support... -Like it totally makes sense for us
-to maybe go. -I think support, though,
-to maybe go. -I think support, though, and I think Sergio maybe wants you here.
[Naima] I think we should all talk about this together.
-What do you think, babe? -Yeah.
-Do you want us to stay? I mean... -No.
-Yeah. -No.
[Kathy] I feel like maybe you guys should, um, just talk.
-It's totally fine. -Yeah.
-We will talk later. -I'm sorry.
Don't apologize. It's fine.
-[Sergio] I'm so sorry. -[Faye] No, don't be.
-Okay, yeah. -[Kathy] Will you call me later?
-[Sergio] Yeah, sure. -[Kathy] Yeah. Okay.
I have to go to the bathroom.
So do I.
-Say hi to my shit right now. -[Naima] What?
[Naima] Oh, my god! Is that your own shit?
[Sergio] It's my own shit on your fucking face!
-How's that? How is that? -Stop it! You're fucking crazy!
Stop it! Be honest!
No! What are you... [taps]
[Naima] Oh, my god!
Oh, my god.
No! Stop it.
What the fuck? Don't!
-Okay, be honest. -What do you want me to say?
Just say what you're thinking.
I don't want to do this.
I don't want to do any of this.
[Naima] You scare me, Sergio.
Thank you!
Thank you for being honest for one fucking minute in 24 hours!
Thank you!
[Sergio] You're so fucked up,
I have to take a shit and put it on your fucking face
for you to say the things as they are.
I've been, 24 hours, trying you to be honest.
Be with you.
Be real next to you.
Why are you trying so hard?
I don't want you to.
Because I fucking love you.
[Naima] How do you know?
-Yes, I do. -No, you don't.
Because it's fucking here!
Because it hurts!
Because it hurts so much!
That's why I know it's fucking real, okay?
-Stop. Stop. -Okay, stop it. Just...
Stop!
You have to stop.
[whimpering] I don't want to do it anymore.
I don't want to do it anymore.
Any of it.
[woman on TV] ...America's coastline, scientists blame the majority
of the increase on rising sea levels caused by global warming.
And they say the flooding will only get worse.
But predicting where those future floods will hit has only just begun.
Our own Chris Donnelly reports.
[Chris] Almost 50 times a year,
Casco Bay which is at the port city of Portland, Maine where diameters...
[Sergio] Hi.
I'm gonna sing this song.
Uh... Yeah.
I didn't write it, but...
neither did Elvis.
♪ Suppose the springtime ♪
♪ Should not arrive ♪
♪ Suppose the tall green trees ♪
♪ Should not survive ♪
♪ Suppose I had no wish ♪
♪ To be alive ♪
♪ Suppose you didn't ♪
♪ Love me ♪
[Naima] Hey.
You got a home, bud?
Your name's not Maxene, is it?
Okay, I'm here.
when the world became this way.
One day, the contagion suddenly started...
and humans lost the power to connect with the city.
After that, the city expanded on its own...
and humans were seen as illegal residents... and exterminated.
It all happened...
long before I was born.
Wait.
This way.
Be careful.
Yeah. Sorry.
You're too jumpy.
We can hear you.
It's still okay around here.
We might've just been lucky up until now.
-Don't let your guard down. -But...
Zuru's right, you know.
I wonder if this is really the right path.
It is a bit different from the map.
It's an old map. The area must have been rebuilt by the Builders.
Do you really think we'll be okay on our own?
Let's go back.
Why the heck would we go back when we've come this far?
It should be just beyond this passage.
I think.
Zuru, up there.
The exit.
Tae!
Are you okay? Tae?
Thanks, Fusata.
Are you okay, Tae?
I'm sorry, Zuru. The spare battery.
We'll be in trouble when we get back.
It's just one battery.
Everyone'll be thrilled if we come back with some sludge. Come on.
Zuru.
Zuru, what are you doing? Hurry.
A Builder!
Don't worry.
These guys don't pay any attention to humans.
Okay, let's go. We're almost there.
It's making more weird stuff.
Let's go, Tae.
Whoa, this is...
I've never seen a place so big.
A watchtower!
That's why the grown-ups told us not to come here.
Well, that's it. Let's go home.
Make sure the watchtower doesn't see us.
And how are we supposed to
get to the hunting grounds while avoiding that huge thing?
Let's take another route.
We'll go through here.
It's a big detour.
There's tons of obstacles in the way.
Well, it can't be helped. Come on.
If the Safeguard appeared in a place like this...
We've been trained as Electro-Fishers, too, you know.
Sutezo said that Zuru's already as skilled as a full-fledged Electro-Fisher.
But we took this gear without permission.
Pops is definitely gonna be mad.
Zuru, I'm sorry.
What? Tae?
You said it was for my sister's sake, right?
For us to go out hunting alone like this.
It's not just for Ito.
After all, there's almost nothing left to eat in the village.
Thanks, Zuru.
We did it.
Look, over there.
Look at all the bugs!
It's the sludge pipes!
Wait!
It's no good.
It's totally dried up.
But it's such a thick pipe.
Zuru.
The watchtower?
The Safeguard!
Exterminators!
Yaichi! Above you!
Retreat!
Run!
Everyone, stay calm! Remember our training, lure them in
then shoot!
Did you hear that, Shizu? Lure them to me!
I can't get them off me!
Shizu!
Damn it!
Shiro! Everyone!
Tae!
Tae!
Zuru!
More!
Zuru!
Are you okay?
Zuru!
Yeah, this is no...
Wait, Fusata.
It stopped.
Take off your headgear.
I want to see your eyes.
-Hey. -Zuru.
Zuru!
We're still in the watchtower's view!
Why?
The watchtower didn't react even when she took her helmettals off?
Hey! Tae!
Are there...
any humans here with the Net Terminal Gene?
Net Termi...?
What?
You saved us... so I wish we could do something to help you in return...
but we don't know what it is you're talking about.
Wait. One of the grown-ups might know something.
But before that, please, tell us...
what are you?
I'm Killy.
A human.
Our village is inside the perimeter up ahead.
We'll be fine once we get back there.
Perimeter.
That's the one place the Safeguard can't enter.
We don't know why, though.
See, that's the perimeter up ahead.
Stop! Zuru, get away from him!
Sutezo, wait!
Why are you all showing your faces? You'll be spotted by the watchtower!
That's because when we're with him, it's okay.
Who is this guy?
Mr. Killy rescued us.
He's human!
Human?
He can't be.
Human, you say?
Isn't he a Safeguard?
I've heard there are Safeguards that look just like humans.
Right, Pops.
Just three of you, huh?
I'm sorry. The Exterminators...
That's why we told you, Zuru, you guys can't do it on your own!
But then you went and took that gear without our permission anyway.
At any rate, it's dangerous to stay out here.
Hurry and get inside the perimeter.
Pops!
So, he's not a Safeguard.
Yeah.
Are you a traveler?
Where did you come from?
Below...
6,000...
levels.
6,000?
There's no way.
We'll talk more inside.
Come on.
Pops!
That's our village.
At the most, there were about 400 people living here.
But now there are only about 150.
If you're a traveler, we welcome you.
That's our custom.
Although you're a first for our generation.
The first person we've welcomed into our village from the outside.
We Electro-Fishers are descended from people called Planters
who apparently wandered through the city like you.
It's said that they found this place about 300 years ago.
So, we've lived inside the perimeter ever since.
So, it's rare for us to meet any strangers.
In the city,
there must be other humans managing to survive.
But we have no idea how many there are
or where to find them.
We don't know anything.
So, any stories we could hear from a traveler would be precious.
Pops, have you ever met a human?
No. I've only found the remains
of places where humans lived.
Pops.
Pops and the others are back!
Hey! The kids are with him!
Hey! The kids are back!
What's that?
Pops and Sutezo brought the kids back!
How many kids? All of them?
I'm not exactly sure.
And there's someone strange with them.
What do you mean, someone strange?
Well...
Welcome back, Pops.
Pops.
Just you guys?
Where are the other three?
And their gear? Did you leave that, too?
What about the helmettals? Weren't you at least able to bring the helmettals back?
Damn it.
You know we don't have the tech to make that stuff anymore.
What about food?
It was all dried up.
It's enough that three of them came back alive.
Oh, well, in another month, we'll all starve anyway.
Hey, Pops.
Who's that?
He's a traveler.
He's a traveler?
So, there really are other humans out there.
Can we trust him?
If he's a traveler, we'll welcome him.
But we don't have anything to feed him.
He's not a Safeguard, is he?
A Safeguard wouldn't be able to get in here.
Stay back, honey.
No!
There's something drawn on it.
A bucket of water?
This is pretty good.
It must be really nutritious.
Give me some.
Hey, let me have some.
-This is great! -This'll give you energy.
Pops, Sutezo.
Pops.
Tae.
Here.
This much?
There's some for your sister.
Thank you.
Zuru, Fusata.
I'm glad you're back.
But don't do anything like that again, okay?
I'm sorry.
I'm sure you already know,
but people looked for a new hunting ground before
and they were all killed by the Safeguard.
The group that went east was taken out completely.
That's why these guys
thought they had to do something for the village.
Zuru.
When you've put the gear back, come to my room.
Okay.
-Sutezo, let's go. -Right.
You come, too, please. I'd like to speak with you.
Your name was Killy, right?
Thanks for sharing your food with us.
Normally we'd be the ones feeding you...
but as you can see, we're nearly out of food.
Hey.
Where did you get that thing?
Two hundred levels
-below. -Two hundred?
So, we can't go get more.
This place is protected by the perimeter,
but there's nowhere inside where we can get food.
So, we Electro-Fishers go out
and get sludge to bring back.
I'm the leader of the Electro-Fishers.
But the hunting grounds near here have all dried up
and we have to go out farther.
Each time, friends of ours get killed,
leaving us with fewer and fewer Fishers.
So, even the children...
Here. Come in.
That food is amazing.
-Wonder where he got something like that. -Yeah.
And that weapon. To think it could cut through even an Exterminator's body.
6,000 levels below.
I wonder if he came all that way all alone.
Who knows.
I wonder how many more humans there are.
Maybe there are other villages like this one.
There might be.
I can't even imagine it.
How far do you think this city stretches?
Why does the Safeguard exterminate humans?
I've never even thought about that.
We really don't know anything.
So, according to Zuru, you took out four Exterminators at once.
It would really help to have someone skilled like you around.
Would you consider staying here for a while to help us hunt?
I'm... looking for humans with...
the Net Terminal Gene.
Net Termi--?
What's that?
All humans had it...
before the contagion.
Before the contagion.
You're talking about a time when the city belonged to humans.
It's said the Builders
and the Safeguard followed the humans' orders back then.
Such an ancient legend.
What's that supposed to mean?
The city belonging to humans.
Are you saying that if we had that Net Terminal Gene thing
we could stop the Safeguard?
Not only that,
we could give orders to the Builders
and make them stop building on their own.
We could stop the expansion of the city.
Whoa.
But there's no way there's anything like that here.
Well...
I've actually heard of it before.
That Net Terminal thing.
I'd long since forgotten about it...
but hearing him speak of it reminded me.
I know I've heard that phrase before, a long time ago.
But where?
Right below this village.
A place inside the perimeter,
but we've been told for generations not to go near it.
You don't mean... the Rotting Shrine?
My Gran always told me never to go near it
because there's a ghost there scarier than the Safeguard.
Sutezo. Do you really believe that?
Hey, you!
Right below...
the village.
He's planning to go there.
Sutezo, follow him.
-Tell him to wait. I'll show him the way. -Right.
I'm going, too!
Hurry.
Gran said...
that if you go near the Rotting Shrine,
a stranger interrupts your communications
and their voice can control you like a puppet.
Quit telling stories.
My own great-grandfather fell to his death because of that...
according to Gran.
Over there.
-What's that? -Look!
Net...
terminal...
connection.
I...
Cibo.
Come out.
Is someone there?
I've waited for so long.
It talked.
I've been calling for help all this time, but no one came.
It was so long, until you came.
I waited for 17 million 526 thousand hours.
What's your name?
Killy.
I'm Cibo.
I'm a scientist.
Nice to meet you, Killy.
So, a scientist
really did survive.
That's a Gravitational Beam Emitter, right?
Quite an impressive gun.
That's the one technology that even we couldn't re-create.
Where did you find it?
I don't know about the gun.
There are vestiges of the contagion in your irises.
You... don't have the Net Terminal Gene.
What sort of stupid thing is that to say? Of course I don't.
Do you know
any humans who have the Net Terminal Gene?
If there were any humans like that,
then this city would have been made functional again ages ago.
But I've got something good.
Killy, take me to the automated factory.
Automated factory?
What's that?
Who knows.
If you take me to the automated factory,
I'll make you a synthetic terminal that has the same effect
as the Net Terminal Gene.
You don't believe me, do you?
But it's true.
That thing there...
that's actually the wreckage of a synthetic terminal that I made.
There's a connection port beneath it.
When we found a connection port to the NetSphere here,
we surrounded the area with an electric barrier to keep the Safeguard
from invading, and started experiments.
To keep the Safeguard from invading?
The experiments were successful.
We got all the way to the entrance to the Authority.
But then we were found by their defense mechanisms...
and you can see what happened.
Did you... communicate with the Authority?
No, we couldn't.
But we analyzed information
coming through the counter-current and found a channel we can use to get in.
So, given another chance,
I can definitely succeed.
I have no idea...
what she's talking about.
Hey, you!
Yes?
Just now,
you said you did something to keep the Safeguard from invading, right?
Does that mean you set up this perimeter?
That's right.
-How exactly did you do a thing like that? -Killy, move that rubble out of the way.
That's an electric barrier generator I made.
Thanks to that, we ran our experiments
-without interruptions from the Safeguard. -Connect?
If you can do that, you can give orders to the city?
That's right.
Long ago, all humans had the Net Terminal Gene
and they could all do it.
I can't believe it.
How could humans do a thing like that?
But it's true, they really could.
We tried to re-create that ability artificially using machines.
To stop the city running wild.
If we go to the automated factory I can make another terminal.
Come on, Killy.
Your goal is the same as mine, isn't it?
You want to bring the city back under human control, right?
Yes.
Then it's decided.
Let's go right away!
Hey, wait.
Where is this automated factory thing?
In a section far east of here.
About 15 blocks away.
Fifteen blocks.
That'd take two or three days.
Could we help as well?
-Pops. -Sutezo.
What these people are trying to do might end up saving our village.
Did you really believe all of that?
Either way, things are growing worse in the village.
It won't be long before we make a decision
to leave the perimeter or stay inside and starve.
So... don't you think it's worth taking a chance?
That may be so...
but if we go east for 15 blocks...
the batteries in our gear probably won't even last long enough...
and we can't get that far without being caught by the Safeguard.
All the more reason.
No matter how strong this man is,
there's no guarantee that even he could reach that far alone.
But if we can help him, even a little...
True. It might be better to have more people with us.
But we'll need to take food along for the trip
and there's already so little left.
At the automated factory we can make anything.
If we get there I'll make you anything you want.
Anything?
Yes, even food, anything you like.
Really?
Killy.
To be honest, we don't even understand
half of what she's saying.
But...
we'd like to take a chance with you, and her.
-Hurry! -Aren't there any more spare batteries?
-Take as many spears as you can! -We need one more person!
-Leave some to defend the village. -Do we have enough helmettals?
Stop stalling, all of you.
Hey, Zuru!
We'll be fine as long as we're with Killy.
Let's go. Follow me.
Yes, sir.
What is that?
I heard they found it at the Rotting Shrine.
Is that thing really alive?
Yes, I'm alive.
Hey, Sutezo. Is it true?
Will she really make us food if we take her to this
automated factory place?
I told you, don't ask me.
It's true.
I can make thousands of the portable rations
like the kind Killy had.
Thousands?
How wonderful if that's true.
Pops, is it really safe
to believe what this thing says?
If you have a problem with my decision then go back right now.
I don't have a problem.
Right?
I never had a problem to begin with.
Shut up and walk.
Pair up and get in a circular formation.
-Don't leave much space between you. -Yes, sir.
There was no need for you to come along, Tae.
My sister's doing better thanks to the food that Killy gave us.
I need to repay him.
And also, wherever Zuru goes...
I go with her.
Tae.
Things must be desperate for you to be bringing these children along.
To be honest,
there aren't many of us left who can use the Electro-Fisher gear.
A watchtower!
Hey.
Is that what's doing it?
What is this place?
Hey, Killy.
You're not going to just leave me somewhere on the way, are you?
Killy.
Killy's metabolism is different from normal humans.
He very rarely needs to eat.
Really?
Well, what about you?
I'll pass.
But I appreciate the thought.
Were you scared?
Yeah. But I'm fine.
When those Safeguards come...
the air around them stinks of ions.
It's like, you know...
your nose kind of stings.
Did you smell it?
I was so frantic...
I don't really remember.
Actually, I think I kind of did.
Now that you mention it, there was a weird smell.
I see.
That's the type of thing you have to experience to understand.
Yeah.
Remember this.
When Electro-Fishers camp,
we always light a fire like this and sleep beside it.
It's the way we've always done it.
Why?
Because...
we're on edge all day when we're out hunting.
It's said that
the sight of fire is soothing to humans.
I'm sure that's been true since long ago.
Since long before the city came to this state.
At the end of the day, people would watch the fire
to put themselves at ease.
I've waited for so long.
There were others with me before...
but they all passed away.
No one knows how long the city has been like this.
One day the contagion just suddenly started
and humans lost the power to connect with the city.
After that, the city started to expand at random
and the Safeguard regarded humans as illegal residents
and began to exterminate us.
I was the chief scientist of Kaito, a district far away from here.
In that district,
we'd excavated some information from the remains of the city
and managed to use it
to preserve human life.
But we knew it couldn't last for long.
My group of scientists
found a way to simulate the Net Terminal Gene.
My coworkers and I
set out in search of another place with a connection port.
And that's where we found it.
Along our journey...
one, then another of us died.
Even the ones who managed to reach there, during the experiment they all...
I'm sure Kaito is gone now, too.
The automated factory is through here.
Pops.
Yeah.
No one who's gone this way
has ever come back.
They must have been caught by the defense net.
But with me and Killy here, you'll be okay.
You heard her.
Let's go.
Yes, sir.
This is the entrance of the automated factory.
There are still automated factories like this here and there around the city.
This is the closest one to your village.
It opened!
You were able to connect?
You don't need to be able to connect to the NetSphere for something like this.
What are those?
So, this is what they call a factory.
What are these pool things?
Killy, put me on that console.
INITIATE
Look!
Yes!
Wow!
Now we'll never have to worry about food again!
Yeah!
Zuru, look! It's amazing.
Yeah.
Killy, can you hear me?
I'm having a little trouble.
Take that synthetic terminal and get ready to escape.
I still can't move yet.
Be careful.
I dug in pretty deep. Last time this happened, things went very badly.
Is that one of those synthetic terminals you told us about, Cibo?
With that, we can stop the city, right?
Hey, you.
Pops!
Retreat in two groups. The cargo team goes first.
Fighters, draw them in and take them out.
Yes, sir. Cargo team, hurry!
Tae!
Hurry!
Exterminators! So many.
Tae!
Forget your pack, just come!
But...
-Tae! -Zuru!
Hurry!
Here they come.
Lure them in first.
Right.
Cibo!
Retreat!
Incredible.
We're going!
Hurry!
Tae! Can you hear me? Tae! Tae! Where are you?
Damn it!
-Atsuji! Are you okay? -My leg.
Where's Tae?
Where?!
Up there. She was crushed by an Exterminator.
Zuru!
Zuru! No!
Zuru! Zuru!
Tae! Tae!
Tae.
Thank goodness.
Zuru.
I'm sorry, I'm okay now.
Tae, are you okay?
Yeah.
Tae!
Thank goodness.
Man, you're so reckless.
Sorry.
Are you all okay? You're not hurt?
Tae's arm is broken.
Tae, can you move?
-All right, let's go. -Yes, sir.
Where's Cibo?
She was crushed.
Safeguard!
They're still crawling around.
They keep coming!
Hey, you! Fire that weapon from before!
What's wrong with you?
Why don't you shoot?
Sorry I'm late.
I've come to rescue you, Killy.
Who?
Cibo?
That barrier coating only lasts 30 seconds.
Run.
Run.
Hurry!
I'm done for.
You go on.
What are you saying, Atsuji? Run!
Get in this car.
Hurry!
It's not broken?
I'm making it work now.
-Can't we go yet? -Just a moment.
There it is.
Here we go.
It moved!
All right.
I'm out of spears.
I've got two left.
I have one more.
I have two.
Don't give up!
Killy, we'd finally gotten the synthetic terminal and everything.
It's a shame.
Killy.
Killy!
Why is this guy so heavy?
-We're almost at the village. -Yeah.
Does it hurt?
I'm fine.
Tae.
They're back! Pops and the others!
Hey, bring out the crane. Time to unload!
Welcome back.
Welcome back, Pops.
-How did it go? -Did you find the food?
Hey, take that down below.
Yes, Pops.
Don't worry, I'll take her.
-Okay. -They're injured.
Get the molecular tape!
She's an awfully big girl.
Is that the person who looked like a corpse before?
Is he dead?
I don't know.
Bring it around slowly.
It's pretty heavy.
This girl sure is strong.
Killy's fine. He's just sleeping.
Take him inside.
Right.
With all this, we should be fine for four to five months.
So, it was worth gathering all the equipment.
We can finally eat till we're full!
How many died altogether?
So, two more good workers died.
Finally!
Real food and drink at last!
Bring down the lights.
For everyone we've lost
over the last two years...
a moment of silence.
Pops.
Thanks.
Give me another one, too.
You're drinking too much.
Because I want to.
We finally get to mourn properly.
Yeah.
For a while there we couldn't even afford to do that.
But now we've got food, the village is saved.
But at a high cost.
We lost a lot of skilled Electro-Fishers
and gear as well.
Can't we just go back to that automated factory place?
You can make anything there, right?
No.
No, we can't go back there again.
It's crawling with Exterminators.
I see.
So... we have to see how long this food lasts.
Killy.
They say the village is saved.
Everyone's really happy.
If Cibo's experiment is successful...
will you still...
continue your journey, Killy?
Hey, Killy.
Do you think maybe...
you could stay?
Cibo.
Killy.
The synthetic terminal.
I'm going to connect it now. There's something I'd like your help with.
Wait.
What are we gonna do now, Pops?
Now we just pray that Cibo's experiment works.
If it does, we won't have to live in fear of the Safeguard anymore.
I really can't wrap my head around it.
Around what?
The idea of humans connecting to machines.
I mean, it's like...
They say the Builders and the Safeguard will do what the humans say.
That's a good thing, right?
But why did people want to do that in the first place?
I don't want to live long enough to find out.
You sure eat a lot.
Well, you earned it.
No, it's not for me.
I thought I'd take some to Tae.
Zuru.
I won't be able to move while I'm connected.
I want you to protect me then.
Oh, Sutezo.
Zuru, looks like he woke up.
You were with Killy, right, Zuru?
Did you talk with him?
No.
Hey.
Zuru!
Oh, Pops.
You're here to help?
I had a bit too much to drink.
I'll take this on the way back to my room.
Zuru.
Wait, Zuru.
How'd it go? I bet you made her happy.
She's not in her room.
Tae?
Tae?
-What is it? -Tae!
It looks like the barrier generator has been destroyed.
Tae!
What's wrong with you?
Tae.
Wait! Don't go near!
Tae.
-Tae. -Hey!
Tae.
Pops!
Fusata! Hang in there!
Tae. Tae!
Tae! Tae!
No! Wake up!
Tae!
I am Sana-kan.
Representative construct of the Safeguard.
We, the Safeguard, will eliminate
all illegal residents lacking the Net Terminal Gene.
-Tae! What's wrong with you?! -Fusata!
The Safeguard?
Tae!
Fusata! Come on!
Watch out!
Fusata!
Zuru, don't!
What's going on?
An explosion!
What's happening?
What happened?
What is going on?
Successful infiltration of illegal residents' unauthorized compound.
Barrier generator destroyed.
Total extermination in progress.
Successful infiltration of illegal residents'...
That's...
Posing as a human to get through the barrier.
That's a high-level Safeguard, Killy.
It looks like we should hurry.
Killy!
Fusata!
Fusata, this way!
Tae.
Tae.
Tae.
Tae. Tae.
Tae.
In accordance with Elimination Ordinance 5,
beginning auxiliary elimination.
Damn it! Our village.
Pops!
Don't worry about me. Go on ahead.
Pops.
Listen, Sutezo.
Gather everyone together and go up the tower.
Shoot back from the top of the tower.
Right.
-Take care of Pops. -I will.
Hurry up!
I'm going first!
You guys, hurry up!
Fusata! Put on your gear!
There aren't any more helmettals!
We don't have enough!
Zuru... here.
But...
Sutezo.
-Over there, don't let them in! -Damn it, they just keep coming!
Looks good.
What's going on?
Zuru?
Where did Tae go?
She was replaced by the Safeguard.
There's no way she's alive anymore.
No.
Tae.
Tae can't be dead!
Fusata!
I'm going on ahead.
Zuru.
How's that?
Damn it!
I'll blast you from up close!
Damn it! Are they monsters?
Killy!
Zuru! Hey, Zuru!
Hurry, up here! Everyone, get up here quickly!
Hurry!
In accordance with Elimination Ordinance 3, Clause 2,
Elimination Level has risen by three.
Requesting authorization to use Gravitational Beam Emitter.
You are a body that was stolen from us, the Safeguard.
A body.
Do you intend to return?
Answer immediately.
In accordance with the Ordinance...
I will destroy you here.
Unauthorized connection to the NetSphere detected.
Elimination Level has risen by two.
I won't let you!
Sutezo!
Killy!
Aim carefully! Lure them in and shoot!
We did it! That was the last one!
Tae.
It can't be.
The Authority!
This must be inside the NetSphere then.
This is one of the reserve electronic worlds that connects
the NetSphere to base reality.
Reserve?
Please, let me connect to the NetSphere.
The net terminal you used
has just now lost its effectiveness.
No.
The connection to your brain in base reality
will also be cut in just a few nanoseconds.
But you still have time.
Here in the reserve world, time is sped up
so from your relative point of view, time seems extended.
Please, at least stop the Safeguard's attack on that village.
Without an order from someone with the Net Terminal Gene,
we, the Authority, cannot take any such action.
You're right.
However, as much as is allowed within this reserve electronic world,
I can tell you the coordinates of abandoned levels
that the Safeguard are not currently monitoring.
What's this?
It stores a map of the levels near here.
We cannot take this information out into base reality...
but we do not have any orders to stop you from connecting to it.
Take the injured over there!
Someone help carry them!
Hurry, over here.
Bring the molecular tape!
Fusata.
Shall I wrap it?
Yeah.
Killy.
We were saved thanks to you.
Zuru, what happened to Cibo?
I don't know.
I see.
It's all over.
It's too early to give up.
Wait!
Cibo.
Cibo!
My brain is in my arm.
This place has been found out by the Safeguard.
Sooner or later, the Exterminators will be back.
Then what should we do?
There's an abandoned level between this one
and the one below it.
There's a descending track to it
to the north of here.
An abandoned level.
It's a place that's been disconnected from the NetSphere.
The Safeguards and Builders won't interfere.
What should we do?
Can we believe her?
If we stay here we'll just be killed by Exterminators.
Pops.
Everyone, get ready to leave.
Let's go, Killy.
Killy.
Come on, let's go back home.
It's scary out here.
We're not going back there again.
The Safeguard found us there.
Pops, I'm sorry.
I...
It's my fault for taking everyone out hunting.
No.
We should be thanking you.
Wow, Cibo, you can call the railway car!
Just don't try it yourself.
Okay, everyone get in.
Can we really get to an abandoned level?
-Here, get in. -Okay.
Be careful.
That smell.
-They're here! -Hurry, everyone!
Killy, what are you doing? Hurry and get in!
Killy!
You can't be serious.
What's wrong, Killy?
Killy.
Won't I see you again?
I'm... looking for...
the Net Terminal Gene.
I'm closing it now.
That was the last the villagers ever saw him.
After that, my grandmother Zuru led us all in the new land.
You've grown big.
My grandmother
always talked to me about Killy when I was young.
A long time has passed, but...
there's no sign of the city functions returning to normal.
I suppose no one has been found yet with the Net Terminal Gene.
But I believe.
I know that somewhere,
he's still out there in that endless city...
[woman] Dr. Harber, before we're live, I just wanted to say thank you for choosing me.
Peter Piper picked a peck of pickled peppers.
[woman] The rich history you have with other journalists...
[Harber] I chose you precisely because we don't have a history.
Now, don't fuck it up.
[woman 2] Fifteen seconds.
People trust you... for decades have valued you.
I think that's because people value the truth.
Right, but don't you think your discovery was just... too dangerous
to share with the world?
Look, this has been my life's work for over 40 years.
There's nothing willy-nilly here.
After much discussion, much debate, we all came to the same conclusion.
-Which is? -Which is, once you explore
all scientific possibilities, and you come to a consensus,
how can you keep a discovery so vital to our existence a secret?
And that discovery...
You proved the existence of an afterlife.
I prefer to call it a new plane of existence.
I can't comment on terminology like "soul" and "heaven" and "afterlife,"
but what I can say with scientific certainty is that once the body dies,
some part of our consciousness leaves us and travels to a new plane.
Your machine was able to capture brain wavelengths
on a subatomic level, leaving the body after death.
-Is that...? -That's correct.
Where do those wavelengths go?
My point is, a new plane of existence is out there.
Yes, that is no longer in dispute.
But you can't tell us what that is exactly.
When you see a train leave the station...
do you need to know where it's going to understand that you saw it leave?
It's a tough pill to swallow.
At one point, so was the Earth being round.
But, Dr. Harber, why did it take you six months to address us?
Where have you been?
It seems to me that I invited you here, to my home.
Yes, you did. Thank you.
But... we only received that invitation
after the suicide toll had rapidly reached a million.
And during that time, celebrities, athletes,
even a close colleague of yours, all ended their lives.
Which is why I agreed to sit with you and try to calm the waters.
Okay.
I wanna ask you the question
that everybody watching right now is probably wondering.
Do you feel responsible for all those people killing themselves?
No.
-That's it? -That's it.
[man] Thank you, Dr. Harber... for my fresh start.
[woman 1] Andy, no!
Andy!
-Andy! -[woman 2] Oh, no.
[woman 1] Oh, God!
-Why would you do that? -[woman 2] Somebody call 911.
[woman 1] Help! Some....
Call help, please.
Right now. Get someone here.
My God!
Why would you do that?
Oh, God.
Turn those cameras off.
[man] Welcome back to our coverage of the two-year anniversary of the Discovery.
We'll be revisiting the touchstone moments of the past two years,
with retrospectives all weekend long.
Hard to believe that it's been a year and a half
since Thomas Harber's first and only post-Discovery interview ended suddenly with an on-air suicide.
ended suddenly with an on-air suicide.
Since then, the worldwide suicide toll has skyrocketed to staggering levels.
Over four million people have taken their lives,
attempting to "get there."
As for Dr. Thomas Harber, he has not made a public appearance
since that infamous post-Discovery interview.
Completely off the grid--
[woman] I was listening to that.
I was listening to that.
I'm sorry, I thought-- I thought that I was alone.
It's off-season. Why the fuck are you going to this dreary island?
Well, you're going there.
Hi.
Hi.
Are you one of those lunatics
who just sits next to a complete stranger in an empty movie theater?
You look so familiar to me.
It's possible we've met,
but you don't have a memorable face.
Okay. [chuckles]
I'm sorry. I don't know why I said that. I didn't mean that. I just...
The water. I'm just a little seasick.
That's weird. It's your lucky day. I don't normally carry these around.
-Vertigo. -I'm not dizzy.
You can't treat vertigo, just the effects. That's for nausea.
Do I look like the kind of girl who's just gonna take a pill from some strange guy?
Fair enough.
Isla. My name's Isla.
I don't look like an Isla, though.
Your first three years, you look like whatever name you're given,
then by four, you either settle into your name or you just...
-What about you? -What?
What's your name?
Oh, uh, Will Stevenson.
[mouths] Will.
What?
I'm just trying to see if you look like your name.
-What's the verdict there? -I don't know.
It's too early to tell.
You know, Will is just such a, like, "Will" name.
You're really something.
Happy second Discovery anniversary, Will.
They said on the news they're expecting like a whole slew of suicides today.
People trying to get there for the anniversary.
I heard something about that.
Did you see that video of those dumb cheerleaders
taking pills on the 50-yard line?
I just can't get behind the concept of suicide groups.
It's so... disingenuous, you know? It just feels so weak.
-You don't believe in the Discovery? -No, I don't believe in suicide groups.
The Discovery is-- I mean, the proof is overwhelming.
Proof shouldn't be overwhelming. Proof should be definitive.
So, you don't believe.
I don't believe the way everybody else does. No, I don't.
-And how's that? -I'm a neurologist.
Three months ago, I had a patient, really young,
found out that she had brain cancer. Very sad.
She reacted to that diagnosis
as though I'd handed her a fucking winning lottery ticket.
It wasn't because she hoped that maybe she was going someplace better.
It was because the Discovery made her think that it was guaranteed.
Well, yeah. Death used to be something we just had to live with,
and now it's a convenient way to escape pain. That's okay.
That's okay? Another plane of existence, maybe.
Who knows? But I look around, I see a lot of people jumping out of planes
hoping they're gonna grow wings.
Reality and fantasy are mutually exclusive.
They don't exist in the same space.
What?
When I was five, I had an accident, and I died for about a minute.
When I was resuscitated, I told my parents that I saw something.
Flashes. A little boy.
Me, maybe, or my brother.
I felt stranded...
Stranded where?
This empty beach. It doesn't matter. It was a dream.
It was a dream that I embellished after I woke up.
Why would you make all that up?
I think it's our instinct to search for meaning,
and when there is none, it's our instinct to create meaning
and we just... lie. We lie to ourselves.
You are so annoying. Has anyone ever told you that?
Yeah, they have.
Ugh. Thank God we only have a minute left together
before we're strangers again.
You think it's gonna be a minute this time of year? You're crazy.
Crazy, but right.
That's the attractive-girl component and I didn't factor that in.
[Isla] You'd better work on your math.
Hey!
For whatever it's worth, I think you do look like an Isla.
How many of us have you met?
-I got it. -No, I got it, man.
Well, I don't want to die before we get there, Toby.
-What's going on over here? -Eddie.
-Wait, Eddie Iodice? Eddie died? -Mm-hmm. Yeah, just to get there.
Just to fucking get there.
Guy pulled a Marilyn Monroe,
downed a whole bottle of pills right there in his bedroom.
Good dude, too.
-Real pity. -You didn't wanna go to the service?
Go to the...? I would rather stick my dick in a wood chipper
-than go to another fucking funeral. -Got it.
You know, I'm not as stupid as you might think.
When you called the other day and I told you
that Dad had built something new...
after that conversation...
suddenly you wanted to come home.
-You're sounding just as paranoid as him. -[chuckles]
[Toby] Dad said he needed to change things up.
People knowing our address was too dangerous.
I'm sorry I couldn't tell you on the phone,
but we don't trust phones now.
Here we are.
Off to see the wizard.
[Will] What the fuck is this place?
Uh, it used to be a summer camp for "troubled youths."
Which I never really understood, because if they're bad kids,
why would they deserve a fun summer? You know?
But then it shut down and Dad bought it.
What do you think?
[Will] I think it's completely insane.
Well, the truth is we just needed a lot more space to house things.
House what things?
[Toby] These people were all affected by the Discovery.
Some of them arrived here after two or three failed suicide attempts.
We gave them a home,
something to live for in this life, a reason to contribute.
Oh, uh, real quick.
Just FYI, FBI-type thing, protocol is no cell phones.
-Yeah, okay. Let's go. -Yeah.
Hey, don't worry.
[man] This is truly thrilling.
I can only compare it to the model train set
you let me assemble by myself on my birthday.
[woman] Cutting it a little close.
[Toby] Oh, well, you know me. Pins and needles, needles and pins.
These goddamn machines.
-Who the hell's that? -His other son just returned.
Surprisingly taller than I remember.
Good to see you again, Cooper.
Will, Lacey. Lacey...
That went well.
Where's Dad?
-Is he dead? -No, of course not.
He is now.
-[Lacey] Fifteen seconds. -Dad?
Take it easy. They're just running some tests.
-It's all routine. -Ten seconds.
Paddles charged... and ready.
See, they're recharging the body to reboot the brain.
The longest he's ever officially under is, like, 60 seconds.
So, Dad is now killing himself and electroshocking back to life.
No.
Kind of.
But you're... You're looking at this all wrong.
You're wearing whatever the opposite of... What is it? Rose-colored glasses.
That's what you're wearing.
Shit-colored glasses.
Anyway, you shouldn't worry,
because all of this is being closely monitored and controlled.
And we both know you've always been slightly skeptical of everything.
Dad started a cult.
-No. -Can you not see that? This is a cult.
All the way down to these followers in different-colored jumpsuits.
No, no, no. There's no hierarchy here, Will.
Dad calls it... distinctions in clearance.
-That's all. It's not a cult. -It should be different. Straitjackets.
You're the one that wanted to come back here
for whatever reason. Right?
Now, that, right there, is the million-dollar question.
Welcome back, Will.
You mind telling me something?
What are you doing back here?
I'm here because I want you to stop it.
I'm asking you just to put an end to all this.
How would I do that?
Say that you were wrong.
Take it all back.
I can't take it back, Will, because it's the truth.
Who knows better than you?
You were the inspiration for this. Aren't you curious?
Please, don't say that. That's not...
-I wasn't. -Ah, but you were. Hang on.
"Therefore, it is my belief
consciousness should be considered as another state of matter."
-Please don't. -Hang on.
I'd like to get to this other part. It gets good.
"Properties of consciousness arise from the physical laws
that govern our universe."
-I was wrong. -You don't believe that.
We were wrong, Dad.
We were wrong because a lot of people died.
And a whole lot more people are gonna kill themselves...
while you experiment here in this ridiculous fortress.
So, just slamming on the brakes of 40 years' work?
I'd be saying I'm responsible.
Maybe you are.
So, you think I've gone too far?
Well, I don't think I've gone far enough.
We opened the door for these people, Will.
They know it's there.
Now we have to show them what's behind it.
Isla!
Isla!
Isla!
Isla!
[Will] Oh, fuck!
-What are you doing? -What's your problem?
Come on. Stand up. Get up.
-[Will] Why are you doing this? -[Isla] None of your fucking business.
You sat there on that fucking ferry and had a conversation with me,
knowing you were gonna do this.
You were supposed to be the last person I ever spoke to.
You don't get to just change that!
Ah. You're not even emotional about dying.
I'm not emotional about anything.
[Toby] I'm just concerned...
that this will all be perceived unfavorably by some.
[Will] She was going to catch pneumonia, Toby.
[Toby] I still don't know what you want me to do with her.
[Will] You told me that you take in people who need help. She needs help.
She still can't just stay here. We have rules.
Then can we make an exception... in her case, please?
We're talking about somebody's life.
We have no idea if she will attempt or try to...
Kill myself again?
You can say it. I know what happened. I was there when you ruined it.
She and I have been getting along great.
We still have rules.
She has to talk to Dad, and she has to take the questionnaire.
What's the questionnaire?
-Um... -Can we be...?
Will, you have a visitor.
Your dad is Thomas Harber?
[Harber] So, nobody but the conductor, which is me, is gonna know your answers.
Everything is completely discreet here.
And now Lacey will be giving us some privacy.
It used to be about global exploration, you know, discovering new land,
and then it was space travel.
Shining a light on the dark corners of the universe.
And now it's exploring what comes after this life.
Seeing what's next. How old are you?
[man on recording] You are all part of the same thing.
Cells in a body.
Waves in the ocean.
The soul isn't young or old.
[Harber] Do you accept the fact that time is a nonlinear illusion created by man?
Pass. I don't know what that means.
There are no right or wrong answers to this questionnaire.
-Then why do you bother giving it? -That's a good response.
[Harber] Okay, greatest ability... and most disappointing weakness.
[Isla] I guess I'm good at seeing what makes somebody tick.
Understanding who they really are.
[Harber] Weakness?
I'm able to understand them, but I'm not able to care about them.
If somebody mentions "subconscious" to you, what do you think?
-Memory. -Dig deeper.
-Hidden memory. -Would you say that you suppress emotions?
I don't really like talking about myself like this.
You don't have to like it. We think about ourselves every day.
Everything is from our own perspective. So, as much as you may not want
to indulge yourself in looking at your most inner thoughts,
they're there. Make no mistake. They are there.
[Harber] Do you believe in a soul? If not, close your eyes.
Great. Let's just say a soul does exist. Where in the body do you think it'd be?
I think if there's a soul, it would belong in the brain.
Now, that's interesting. Most people say the stomach.
But I like that you didn't.
[Harber] Have you ever experienced sudden loss?
Yes.
And what aspect of regaining normalcy after losing someone...
was the most difficult?
Inanimate objects, maybe? Like...
my coffee table. I've had it for years
and I've probably looked at it a million times, but after he--
Familiar objects just became distorted and unfamiliar.
I started to hate my ceiling fan, my cereal bowl, my tea kettle.
[Harber] Okay, last question.
Are you legitimately suicidal?
If you knew what came after... this life...
do you think it would affect your decision-making
or maybe even make you change your mind?
Maybe. Knowing could change things.
How'd you know this is where you'd be staying?
I found our old bed.
Yeah, I see that.
And you should thank me... by the way, because
I fought long and hard to keep old faithful here.
How's Isla?
Oh... That's actually why I'm here. Will, she's dead.
No, she's not. She's not dead. That was a bad joke.
Um... But the questionnaire is all wrapped up.
She can stay.
Yeah, good. She needs to be looked after. She could try again.
I don't think that's going to happen, Will.
Because tonight...
everything changes.
We finally unveil it.
What is "it," Toby?
Dad wanted me to invite you to a little gathering tonight,
just a select group.
Boy, this is nothing like our old house, huh?
It sounds to me a lot like you're advocating murder.
I'm not advocating murder. I'm just pointing out that most people
don't look at ending somebody else's life the way they do their own.
[sighing] Where is he?
It's about to happen.
I can't tell when you're talking to me or that. It's really annoying.
Anyways, what I'm saying is, people are killing themselves to get there.
At a certain point, they'll use the same logic to kill somebody else,
'cause they're just sending them somewhere else, right?
Finally, he's here.
And he is not wearing the temp jumpsuit I had left for him.
We're programmed to process our experiences
as having a beginning and an end, when, in reality... doesn't exist.
It's just one long, drawn-out middle.
Some of you are newer than others,
but I wanted to create a select group that could see what it is that I built.
But before we do that, I'd like to take a moment
and have you join me in... bowing our heads...
And let your subconscious... take you somewhere else.
I'm sort of amazed that you get swept up in this, this easily.
You don't strike me as a say-your-prayers type.
Just because somebody doesn't believe in God doesn't mean they can't pray.
What kind of an atheist talks to God?
Why did you give me a phony, bullshit last name?
It wasn't phony. It was my mother's maiden name.
Where is she?
She's dead.
How did she die?
Because of my dad.
Let us come back into this moment.
I now offer you the opportunity...
to see the afterlife.
I can now record where we go.
[Cooper] Please, uh... get these back to us
at your earliest convenience.
And again, these living quarters are just temporary
until we can find you a more suitable room.
When I first moved here, I slept on a cot in the kitchen.
-Glamorous. -[chuckles]
I'm supposed to be at the bottom of the ocean, so this should be fine.
Can I have a pen?
Nondisclosure agreement.
Well, considering the sensitivity, it's a fairly standard document.
Could we have the room for a second, please?
[Cooper] You remember that awful week when we slept on the cot by the fridge?
My back sure hasn't forgotten.
-[Will] Hey. -Mm.
So... I know that that device is very compelling. Um...
-Can we talk about it for a second? -I'm not allowed to talk about it,
'cause I just signed a nondisclosure agreement.
So, your dad's a little weird. Who cares? It doesn't make him wrong.
I mean, Poe fucked his cousin. It didn't make him any less a writer.
I wanna see if that machine does what he thinks it does.
Well, what if it did?
How would that change things?
You don't go on vacation without looking at the brochure first.
Hey. Uh... I'm sorry. Were you sleeping?
I'm standing.
Well, yeah.
That's just something you're supposed to say, I guess.
Since you're up, mind coming downstairs and taking a look at something for me?
Yeah, sure.
-[Isla] Where are you guys going? -It's nothing. Don't worry about it.
When he flatlines, think of it as a light bulb turned off by a switch.
Flip it on, flip it off.
But going under, hooked up to the new device,
you're not just flipping a light switch.
You're essentially detaching the entire bulb.
So, I'd say that if you go under again...
you're coming back with next to no brain functionality.
I'm sort of surprised it hasn't happened already.
I know you wanted to be first, but if you don't come back, what's the point?
We just go back to the drawing board. Right?
I mean, it could still work, we just need to find a new way to...
We need a cadaver.
Okay. Uh, I'm sorry to interrupt.
Where do you guys plan on getting a corpse?
I have a corpse idea.
-Am I being rude? -Huh?
-Am I being rude? -No.
-Care to... listen? -Sure.
Crunchy groovy grooves. Serene nights.
-Can I ask you something? -Mm-hmm.
Will mentioned what happened to your mom earlier.
That she killed herself?
Not exactly.
So, she was trying to get there?
No, that was a good couple years before the Discovery.
Yeah.
How you doing?
In the midst of life, I am in death.
That was weird. I was just wondering if you could help me out.
My, uh, cousin, Billy...
he's gone missing.
And it being the two-year anniversary of the Discovery,
we're all just a little worried.
Really worried.
We got three John Does in this week. How long has he been missing?
Nope. No. No Billy here.
Bummer.
Would have made my life a hell of a lot easier.
Sorry, that was insensitive.
They just got me running rampant here. I'm doing the job of five people.
Off-season cutbacks and whatnot? Yeah.
Can I give you a description... of Billy?
That way if he does... come in, you can keep an eye out for him.
Of course.
Let's go to my office.
[Toby] Hey, so, just curious...
I'd like to point out you're reading off a laundry list of corpse requirements.
Aneurysm, that won't work.
It'd be nice if you could help me, seeing as we're breaking and entering.
Like a real, like, pouty-type face.
And then, um...
he's got a birthmark on, uh...
Let's see. On his right elbow. You're not writing any of this down.
Well, I think I've got more than I need to go on here, so...
But we... We haven't even gotten to the lower half of his body.
Don't you think it's weird how these people were alive a few hours ago?
They had fears and desires, they could exercise?
I don't think it's weird. I think it's fucking sad.
-Maybe they went someplace better. -Maybe they went someplace worse.
Maybe they went someplace that we can't even begin to comprehend.
All the more reason to see what your dad's machine shows us.
Shit.
What?
"Fifty-two, massive coronary."
Will...
meet Pat Phillips.
Pat Phillips, this is Will.
I don't like that creepy room Cooper put me in.
I'm gonna sleep in your room tonight.
Top or bottom?
We could talk, you know.
When I'm nervous, I talk too much or not at all.
Well, you're safe here.
I mean... nothing leaves the bunk beds.
When I first got here and they gave me that jumpsuit,
it had a V etched on it. I wonder what that stood for.
"Visitor," maybe?
Is that a guess?
That was a pretty good guess.
It's like one of those really obvious answers
that only seems obvious after you find out about it.
Were you really smart growing up? I bet you were.
I was told that I demonstrated an early ability to recognize spatial patterns,
whatever that means.
I always took it as one of those things a teacher tells to a parent
to make them feel better about their shitty kid.
Like, "Gordon is very good at drawing circles.
Gordon draws circles at a more advanced level than the other children."
These bunk beds really worked out well,
'cause they spared me the awkwardness of having to tell you I'm not gonna fuck you.
Sorry, all I heard was something about circles and not fucking me.
I don't wanna be the only fucked up person on this bunk bed, Will.
Maybe... tell me about your mom now.
There's not much to tell. She killed herself.
On their anniversary.
How did she do it?
She made them dinner,
and... my dad didn't even come out of his office.
If he'd even just hinted that he gave a shit, I mean, who knows?
But he couldn't be bothered. So, she went upstairs...
took a bath instead and, uh...
Yeah, the next morning I found her in the tub.
And so, you left?
Yeah, I had to. I couldn't be around it. I knew.
It's like everything that was recognizable sort of instantly became unrecognizable.
Sometimes I feel like I'm taking someone else's spot and then I feel sad.
How do you mean?
Like, being here alive is a waste
because... I don't enjoy it, I'm not happy or grateful...
and I'm taking a spot away from someone who
maybe would've gotten something more out of it.
Yeah.
I guess I don't think it works that way.
Here's something I haven't heard anyone talk about.
Do animals have an afterlife?
Bunnies, kittens, pigs, monkeys. What happens to them after they die?
I mean, I feel like they really deserve an afterlife.
Do they have their own animal afterlife?
And if they do, is it subdivided by species?
Because it feels like something as profound as an afterlife
shouldn't practice segregation.
And what happens to a child?
Hold hands till we fall asleep?
This doesn't seem entirely fair.
Yeah, okay.
Lacey?
Okay, Toby?
Did you hit...? Hit it again.
Again.
Hit it again.
I'm hitting it.
Hit it again.
-You're gonna fry the body. -Toby, hit it again.
Again.
Hit it again.
Again. Hit it again.
Is this just a setback or...?
I'm really not sure.
Are you gonna see him?
Or are you just gonna continue to ignore it?
[Pat] I'm sorry... I can't.
[woman] Of course you can't. Story of your fucking life.
Just run away and leave me to deal with the mess.
-Hey. -Hey.
What are you doing with my body?
Your body, uh, is to be cremated at noon, so, I'm getting it ready.
We do still have a little time to prep a redo.
Redo? Guys, come on. You almost fried the body.
You do this redo, you're gonna cremate him early. All right?
Toby, rustle up a van. Will's right.
It's good.
Seeing you back in the labs again, it's good.
It's where you belong.
Toby, I want you to locate me a new corpse, immediately.
Hey. Can I ask you something?
-Okay. -How'd you end up here?
Why?
I came home and found my dad and my sister hanging in my living room.
To get there.
I'm sorry.
It's okay. They didn't want me to come.
Can you imagine feeling abandoned
'cause your dad left you out of the family suicide?
What's wrong with you?
Nothing, I'm just... I'm processing.
I mean, do you ever get out of your head even for one minute?
Let's do an experiment.
Look at me and tell me the first thing that comes to your mind.
I'm driving.
Okay.
I don't know you very well.
I think you're beautiful, and alive, and if you killed yourself,
it wouldn't just be sad, it would be a tragedy.
Shut up.
-You want the head or the feet? -Head.
Okay.
"Oh, hey, Isla. What are you up to?"
"Oh, nothing much, Jim.
I'm just... lugging a corpse through a parking lot."
-Why'd you go with "Jim"? -Don't be jealous of hypothetical Jim.
Believe me, if hypothetical Jim makes you not wanna kill yourself,
I can be supportive.
Do we just leave it here?
Believe it or not, it's my first time returning a corpse, so... I'm improvising.
Hi, yeah, um, I was just driving by and this is kind of weird,
but there seems to be, like, a dead body laying in your parking lot.
-That was pretty good. -Shut up. Get out.
-I'm saying you're doing a good job. Fine. -Stop it. Sorry. Yeah, no, bad...
Bad reception on the island. Um...
Yeah, the body seems to be abandoned, and... I don't know.
Unless, of course, you guys are playing some sort of fucked-up scavenger hunt.
Okay. Yes, thank you. Bye.
-How'd that go? -It went really well.
Okay. You're, like, weirdly good at that.
-Oh. -Here they are.
-[Isla chuckles] -They're pretty confused.
What do you think they're thinking?
I don't know, but I think Pat Phillips has had a really tough few days.
We're both going to hell.
Yeah. Whatever the afterlife is, I guess.
I don't know. Just stupid.
Are you gonna see him?
Or are you just gonna continue to ignore it?
[Pat] I'm sorry... I can't.
[woman] Of course you can't. Story of your fucking life.
Just run away and leave me to deal with the mess.
Can I borrow your truck? Just for... I have to go get some stuff.
[woman] As far as our records indicate,
we've had 23 patients with the name Phillips on file.
-How accurate are your records? -Accurate.
I would love to see that list.
Mm. I'm sure you would.
What the fuck?
Are you looking for something?
Maybe you can help me. Um...
-Did there used to be a hallway here? -Used to.
They did a little remodeling.
Took their sweet-ass time with it, too.
I'm sorry, how long ago was that remodel?
About a decade ago.
[Isla] Hey.
-Hey. -Where have you been?
This is, uh... This is interesting.
Okay, thank you, Toby.
Thank you, my boy.
Well, hello to you all.
As always, it's a pleasure.
When you all first got here, you...
You used this, uh, piece of equipment.
The questionnaire.
And your answers are what allowed you to stay here,
so, basically... a trust was built.
But lately, I'm beginning to wonder
if perhaps we're getting just a little too comfortable here.
There's a lot of loose talk going on.
And it makes me think that we just might be losing a little focus.
Lacey, would you join me, please?
-What's going on? -It's okay. Relax.
Would you like to tell us how long you've been here?
Um... just over a year.
Just over a year. You were one of the first.
How have you been treated? Have you been treated well?
-Have I been good to you? -You've been wonderful.
-Why are you talking to me like this? -I've been wonderful.
If I've been wonderful, then why are you telling your peers about the device,
and particularly... why are you saying it failed?
Speak up.
It's okay.
I just told one person.
It slipped out when I had mentioned how the new girl was invited.
[Harber] You mean Isla.
You were displeased when I invited her here, weren't you?
It's just that some people who have been here much longer weren't asked.
Tell everyone where I found you.
Thomas.
It's okay.
This is a safe place.
In the woods.
Go on.
I had a gun.
And where was that gun aimed?
At my chest.
Right next to your heart.
Usually, it's the head... or the barrel goes into the mouth.
I don't know that I've ever seen it done that way before.
I'm sorry.
Please don't lose faith in me.
"Faith."
Oh, God. I have such contempt for that word.
Show me someone who relies on faith
and I'll show you someone who's given up control
over whatever it is they believe.
Sorry, there's nothing more I can do for you.
Thomas, please.
Pack up your belongings. Say your goodbyes.
That was a hell of a show out there.
Come on, Will.
You think I don't know a lot of this is bullshit?
You give meaning to people who think they have no more reason to live.
The jumpsuit, the chain of command, the theatrics.
It gives them purpose. And I care about them.
Yeah. Someone should tell that to Lacey.
You... You can pretend all you want
that the reason you left was because you stopped approving of my work.
Work, by the way, that we did together.
But I think we both know this was never about the Discovery for you.
-It was always about your mother. -Yes, of course it was about Mom for me.
Just because you wanna pretend like Mom did not happen...
doesn't mean that I'm going to.
-Hey. Can I show you something? -What?
-Just come with me. Please. -Sorry.
[Isla] Wait.
-What is this? -That's what I'm trying to figure out.
-You were gonna keep this from me? -No, I'm... I'm showing you now.
And I was afraid of what you might do.
All right, so, the afterlife... This is the afterlife?
How can it be the afterlife if we're in the same parking lot in that recording?
Then what is it?
My theory is that my father invented something that records memory.
You've heard him go on and on about the subconscious.
I understand that you wanted this to be something different.
The proof is overwhelming that that's a Pat Phillips memory.
Proof shouldn't be overwhelming. It should be definitive.
Where the fuck are we going?
[Will] If what we're seeing on that video happened in real life,
I'm gonna find out exactly when.
Since this hospital opened, there have been 23 patients named Phillips.
But based on the model of his truck,
I can eliminate any Phillips from before the year 2000.
Yeah, but even after 2000, doesn't that leave a lot of names?
That hospital room doesn't exist anymore,
so, we can also cross off any Phillips from the past decade.
That leaves us with one.
"Connor Phillips"?
That's him.
That's Pat Phillips' dad.
He died here 13 years ago.
So, it does just record a memory?
[Will] It's pretty fucked up what happened today, huh? With Lacey?
She spoke out of turn.
And she knew the rules. She basically helped write them.
It's just you and me talking.
You don't believe that.
Stop telling me what I believe, Will.
Proving the existence of an afterlife destroyed Dad's own life.
That's what I believe.
Yeah... everybody else's, too.
Dad has no intention...
of showing anything the machine records with the outside world.
That's why he lost it when Lacey told people.
If he has no intention of showing what it does to anybody,
why is he doing it, huh? What's the point?
"Why is he doing it?"
"Why is he doing it?"
Let's see.
Well...
he'll tell you about the millions of people who died,
and he'll tell you about finishing his work to honor them.
I heard that yesterday.
I've been hearing that for the past two years now.
And I just... smile and nod and agree...
like the idiot son, but I do understand things.
I know Mom died...
Not died. She killed herself.
She killed herself.
And when you look...
at what Dad spent his life working on,
and when you look at the way Mom killed herself, how she did it...
how would Dad not feel a little anger on top of his guilt?
Dad does need... to know.
He needs to know that she made it somewhere.
He overreacted, that's all.
He'll come to his senses, and, uh, Lacey will be back by tomorrow.
Dad always comes to his senses.
It's not a memory, Will.
What?
[Isla] On his left arm in that exact spot, there was a different tattoo.
-[Will] How is that possible? -I don't know, but in the lab, I saw it.
It wasn't a lighthouse. It was waves on his arm.
-Are you sure? -Yes.
It's not a memory. This is something else.
If it's not a memory, then what is it?
Everything we've seen doesn't exist anymore.
I mean, the hospital room's gone, Pat Phillips, obviously gone.
We need to find something in this video that still exists.
The... The woman. There's a...
Her.
We have Connor Phillips' address on his death certificate.
So, I say that we go down there tomorrow...
and we see if somebody can help us track her down.
Will, why are we back here?
I don't know what's waiting for us at that house, and I...
Do you remember I told you about my accident when I was a kid?
Yeah, when you lied to your mom about what you saw.
I didn't lie.
I didn't lie.
This is where I saw whatever...
Whatever it is that I saw. This is the beach.
I used to come here when I was a kid, like... I was drawn to it.
Or it made me feel better.
Anyway... Um...
when I saw you walking into the water the other day, that's...
That's why I was here.
What?
I had a son...
and he was five years old.
And I fell asleep...
just for a second.
And when I woke up, he was gone.
At first I thought I wasn't supposed to meet you... or feel anything.
But maybe I was wrong.
Um, hi. Is this the Phillips residence?
Connor... Did you know Connor Phillips?
Pat Phillips? Can you speak English?
Okay.
Okay, well, that's clearly not the woman from the video.
Maybe they moved or something.
Should we see if they have the new address?
I don't know. I don't know.
Can I help you?
I haven't seen my brother in years.
I'd call it more of a loss for her than for me.
Alzheimer's.
She deteriorated after Dad died.
-Connor? -You knew my father, too?
You know, actually, Pat mentioned him. That he went to see him before he died.
Well, anyway, Dad died and...
Mom, she started going downhill real fast after that.
My husband and I, we own the house now.
Is there gonna be a service or anything, um, for Pat?
I wouldn't know.
I'm sorry, if you don't mind me saying,
you don't seem that upset about your brother's death.
[sighing] Look...
it seems as though you liked him. You found something in him...
so, I'm sorry.
But to the rest of us... he was a piece of shit
who left his sister with a cancer-ridden father
and a mother who lost every marble she ever had.
I'm sorry. So... [clears throat] is the last time that you saw Pat
when he went to visit your Dad in the hospital?
I don't know what bullshit he hauled your way,
but he never visited my father in the hospital.
If he told you that, it's a lie.
He called and said he was gonna visit him, but he never showed up.
This is gonna sound really strange, but did Pat have a tattoo?
He told you about that?
Well...
When he turned 18, we got matching waves.
We were really close then.
So, the machine doesn't record a memory. It wasn't a bad theory.
People are just gonna keep killing themselves.
You know, sooner or later, you're gonna have to forgive your dad.
I've been thinking a lot about the difference between...
what something is and what something means.
And I don't know what any of this is...
but I do think if there's a meaning to any of it,
it has something to do with not pressing the reset button,
even if things get really rough.
We're a bunch of people running around, making the same mistakes over and over.
And I don't know why we think it'll be different somewhere else...
unless we learn what we're supposed to while we're here.
What was your son's name?
Oliver.
I was dreaming.
When he was in the water, I was dreaming.
What about?
I don't know.
I can't remember.
It was one of those times where you know for sure you're dreaming, but you don't...
don't know what about.
I wish I knew.
You don't have to do this alone anymore if you don't want to.
[Toby] Will!
Fuck! Fuck, Will!
Get up. It's Dad. What the fuck are you doing?
What about Dad?
-It's dad. Get the fuck up. -Okay. All right. I'm coming.
I didn't know, so, I couldn't stop it.
Slow down and tell me exactly what happened.
He hooked himself up to the device. He wanted to prove that it works.
-Dad's hooked up right now? -Yes.
[Isla] We need to tell him that it works.
What?
What works?
-What are you doing? -He demanded.
-Why aren't you bringing him back? -He's too far along.
We already know that it records something.
Cooper...
it works, okay?
Dad?
Dad?
[woman] Time to pull yourself away.
Come back to reality. Come home.
-Is that Mom? -It's Mom.
[Harber] What I'm doing is reality.
I need to finish. It's important. Do you understand?
-Their anniversary. -Yeah.
[woman] I'm going upstairs.
[Harber] Now, don't be dramatic. I'll be done soon. And we can have dinner.
[Harber] Honey, wait.
Maybe work can wait. So, what do you say we have some dinner?
She's not taking the bath.
-That's not what happened. -I know.
We can bring him back.
Cooper, just... wait. We have to see what happens.
[Cooper] We've got to do it now, or it'll be too late.
Will, come on.
Toby, I'm sorry. Cooper, now!
-Dad? Dad, listen to me. -[defibrillator shocks]
Dad, please. Listen to my voice.
-Is he gonna be brain...? -I don't know. I don't know.
Cooper, hit it again!
Dad?
What happened?
I knew I saw her.
Like a dream that you can't remember.
I can't figure out what this is, Dad.
I never left my study. Never stopped her on the stairs.
-And she drew a bath. -[Will] I know.
And in the Pat Phillips recording, he has a different tattoo on his arm.
[Harber] I always said the afterlife was a different plane of existence.
But...
what if it's a different plane... of this existence?
Alternate realities?
No, our reality... with differences and variations.
Stepping out of a truck... to visit a dying parent.
Random, like different tattoos.
Stopping someone from going upstairs to end their life.
When we die, what if we travel to an alternate version of our own life?
A second chance?
Then we wouldn't... just have to accept our biggest regret.
In the afterlife, we could change it.
At the risk of stating the super fucking obvious...
if you are right and word of this got out--
We have to destroy the machine.
[Cooper] Hey, Thomas.
Everyone wants to know what's going on.
Welcome, everybody. Nice to have you all here.
I asked you to gather here today because I thought that we should be honest.
-Hi. -Honest with ourselves,
honest with each other.
-You got to see your mom again. -[Harber] I see you as family...
and I think you see me in the same way.
And as family...
I think sometimes we get so absorbed with...
what we're doing individually, we go off on our own track and so forth,
we lose the fact that how important family is.
Lacey?
Lacey.
Lacey, it's okay. Put the... Put the gun down.
Lacey, I was wrong. You do not need to do this.
I didn't kill her.
I just relocated her.
[Will] Isla?
Isla?
Isla. Oh, it's okay.
Isla? Dad! Oh, God.
Dad, please! I need your help!
[woman] Somebody go get help.
[panting] I just wanted my spot back.
Okay. Okay.
[Will] Isla. Dad, please help her.
Don't talk. Just breathe.
I don't wanna die anymore.
[boy] Yeah. Ha!
Isla?
Isla?
[Toby] They were asking, the cops, who to contact for Isla.
-Next-of-kin deal. -[Harber] I'll have Cooper look into it.
-Next-of-kin deal. -[Harber] I'll have Cooper look into it. [Toby] Okay.
I don't wanna overwhelm him with questions right now, okay?
Okay. Yeah, that's probably a good idea.
Yeah.
-Maybe I should go in and check on him-- -No, no, no. Don't.
He needs rest.
He needs to process, okay?
-All right. -You can check on him after dinner.
And then we'll finish breaking down the machine tonight.
[Toby] Okay.
But...
we haven't come close...
to figuring this all out yet, or what it all means.
Like, if it really is another version of our own life,
then what happens when we die again?
[Harber] Toby.
-Toby. -What?
[Harber] We've got to let it go for a while.
We've just got to.
[Harber] Completely dismantled.
-All traces need to be gone. -Thomas, I hear you.
[Harber] William?
Let us in, don't do this.
William.
He's on the ferry headed here?
-Not the same here. -What?
I don't understand. How are we watching this right now if he's not dead?
[man on TV] ...since Thomas Harber's first and only post-Discovery interview ended
[man on TV] ...since Thomas Harber's first and only post-Discovery interview ended with an on-air suicide.
Since then, the worldwide suicide toll has sky--
[Isla] I was watching that.
Isla?
-Isla? -[Isla] It's off-season.
-Why are you going to this dreary island? -Isla?
-I have to stop your shooting, Isla. -Sit down.
I need you to come with me right now.
Sit down, Will. This is just your memory. I'm a part of you. Sit down.
What are we doing back on this ferry? What the fuck is going on?
You were never able to stop me from killing myself until this life.
"This life"? What do you...? What do you mean, "this life"?
You always start back on the ferry.
[Will] Reality and fantasy are mutually exclusive.
They don't exist in the same space.
Well, it looks like we're here.
You know what? I changed my mind. I don't know what I was thinking.
[Isla] The first time, you never got off the ferry.
Then the next day you read that a woman named Isla had drowned herself.
You went on and lived your life,
but the thought that you could've done something never left. It was always there.
[Isla] And then one day, just like everybody else...
I died.
And then you came back here.
How long have I been stuck living in this loop?
How many times have we met on this ferry?
Your death brings you back here.
You keep coming back over and over again and again.
I don't remember any of it. I don't remember these other lives.
Nobody can remember them directly.
But sometimes certain memories do have a way of sticking out.
[Will] You look so familiar to me. You look so familiar to me.
It's your lucky day. I don't normally carry these around.
-This is where I saw whatever... -[Will] This is the beach.
[Toby] How'd you know this is where you were gonna be staying?
[Will] We're a bunch of people running around making the same mistakes over and over.
And I just don't know why we think it's gonna be different someplace else.
What am I supposed to change?
You already changed it. You kept coming back until you saved me.
I didn't save you, you died.
There's more than one way to save somebody, Will.
[Harber] Cooper, ready on our end. We need to bring him back.
How can I hear my dad? He's in a different place.
Two separate parts in the same place.
[Toby] Okay, Dad, defibrillator's charged.
No, no, no. I'm not ready to go back yet. I need more time with you.
Toby, please wait! Not yet!
[Cooper] His vitals are concerning me.
If we pull him now, we might lose him.
Isla. Isla, please. I'm not ready to leave you.
-What's happening to me? -You're about to die.
[Cooper] His heart's stopped, Thomas. Organs are shutting down.
They're trying to bring you back.
That's okay. If I die, I'll just come back here to you.
No, not this time.
You don't have to come back anymore.
You helped me get to where I needed to be and now you'll go someplace else.
When I get there, will I be able to remember you?
I hope so.
[Toby] Dad, everything is shutting down.
His brain's showing barely any activity.
You're leaving now. This is it.
[Harber] I'm not leaving this room until we revive my son.
When I get there... I'm going to remember you.
[Harber] We've gotta pull him out right now.
One... two... three.
Oh, hey. Look. You okay?
-Yeah. -Hey, come here.
Let me help you. Come here, come here. Oh!
I got you.
You okay?
-Holy cow. -Give me that pail.
-You went down pretty good, huh? -Yeah.
Yep. You okay? I got you.
Where's your mom and dad?
Oliver!
Oliver!
Hi.
It's okay. He's all right. He just...
-Okay. -I told you, you can't--
You can't just run off on me like that, okay? I've told you.
He was... He was just... He's all right.
He was struggling a little bit in the water.
I wanted to make sure he got back to you.
-Are you okay? -Yeah.
-Thank you. -Yeah.
He's a good kid.
-You're okay. -Thanks.
I said, don't touch my shit!
-Get your trash out of my house! -[girl] Yo.
Anything break, I'm gonna Ronda Rousey your fat ass!
-Nobody scared of you, Mo. -Shut the fuck up.
All the shit I do for your ass.
Miss Jones, mind your business.
Thank you, Miss Jones.
[woman] You wonder why you keep getting thrown out of foster homes.
-Whatever. -Fucking with a man twice your age.
[Mo] I ain't touched your fat boyfriend.
You grown, right? You a woman?
Goddamn it, be one.
Stop throwing my shit out the window. I ain't playing with you.
-[woman] Your ass 'bout to learn. -Whatever.
Don't want to hear you crying, coming back around.
Ain't nobody coming back nowhere! Fuck your house!
[woman] Slut ass.
[Mo] Dumb bitch.
Social worker pressed me so hard to rat on you.
[man] What you tell her?
[Mo] Ain't nothing to tell.
You don't have to buy me stuff.
But you're like... my step-daddy, right?
Nadège done ruined half my shit.
I could use some new stuff.
Yeah, you should do it.
Think it's cute ringing everybody's bells this late?
-[woman] Yes, she's sorry. -[baby crying]
Fuck that bitch.
I'd use the belt on that one, Lucila.
You gotta teach these kids respect if they gonna live here.
[Lucila in Spanish] Here one day and you're already causing trouble.
[in English] You wake the baby.
[Lucila] Monique.
Monique.
Monique, you no sleep all day.
[in Spanish] I have to get to work. Time to go to school!
[in English] Come on. Ándale.
[mutters] Imposible.
Omari.
-[boy] That's all you got? Come on. -[whistle blows]
[Coach] All right, let's go.
Omari.
-[boy] You're like a little girl. -[Omari] Hold up.
-What's up? -Nadège kicked me out.
-When? -Yesterday.
Help me get my stuff before she steals something.
Omari. You got something better to do?
I'll be done at five.
-Gotta go now. -[Coach] Hey.
Five.
-You here to wrestle? -[Mo] Please.
All you ever practice is doubles.
Shit's mad predictable.
[Mo] Your coach is wack, yo. Your problem ain't even in the lift.
You're not getting your shoulder in close enough. You gotta go deep.
Tell me how he rock that much bling and not be locked up.
-What'd Nadège throw you out for? -She a crazy bitch.
She's jealous 'cause Hassan paid for my nails.
Ain't my fault she ain't learned how to please her man.
-You got a new foster family yet? -Whatever.
Soon as my dad get out, I'll stay with him.
Wait, give me that.
What are you doing?
-[Nadège] Who that? -Omari.
[Nadège] Get out of here. Mo don't live here no more.
-I left my math book in her room. -[Nadège] Is she with you?
No.
I... I need it to do my homework.
-Hurry the hell up. -[Mo] The fuck out of the way!
[Nadège] Oh, you fucking bitch! Your punk ass through!
Okay, Mo.
-You wanna play? -[Omari] Mo, hurry up.
♪ In love with you, darling ♪
-[Hassan] What the fuck? -[music stops]
Trespassing.
Tilden--
-Who you calling? -[Nadège] The police, that's who.
[Hassan] Why you wanna do that?
[Nadège] This slut done broke in my house, Hassan.
Hang up that phone before I smack you.
Mad people be trying for the Powerball.
Don't they know black people don't never win real money?
Shit, if I won...
I'd buy me one of them big-ass TVs. Surround sound and all that shit.
Imagine Halo on that.
-A TV? -Yeah.
I get that much money, I'm getting a house and getting the fuck out.
Where you gonna go? Everyone you know is here.
That much money, you can get a house, move to Miami and be on the beach.
-Eating oranges all day and shit. -Oh, yeah, oranges.
You'll be a millionaire and you gonna be peeling oranges.
-Please, you gonna be peeling for me. -Yeah, all right. [scoffs] [boy] Yo.
Can I get a lick?
I don't know. Can I?
[boy] How about you give me your number?
1800-fine-ass-ho. What's up?
Yo, Omari, where you going?
Don't make me go back to that Spanish lady house.
Chill with me. Omari!
-[Omari] Gotta be up early for a run. -[Mo] You said we chilling at your place.
-You owe me a rematch. -[man] Watch where you going!
[man mutters] Shit.
Fine, one rematch, but I'm not...
-What up, O? -[Omari] What's up, Darrel?
[Darrel] You the big man now, huh?
How's your mom?
[Omari] She good.
[Darrel] Yeah? She still dancing?
[Omari] Yeah. She don't tell us where, though.
[Darrel] It's better that way.
I'm gonna go. I got practice in the morning.
Yeah? What for?
Wrestling, actually.
-No shit. What you weigh, 130? -[Omari] Yeah.
But I'ma drop to 120. I'ma dominate at 120.
-Best correct your footwork. -Whatever.
How you gonna say whatever when you be tripping on your feet?
Think 'cause your mom buy you new sneakers, you gonna make varsity?
Take out all of the glass?
-[Darrel] Yeah. -Good.
You no want if we get fined.
You got a job? You work here?
Better get your asses home. Ya'll looking for trouble out this late.
-Let me get your number. -Ain't got one yet.
Let me give you mine.
All right, I'll see you.
[Omari] When he get out?
Mind your damn business.
-What'd I say? -"I'm gonna dominate at 120."
You wouldn't even be on a team if it wasn't for me.
Why you mad for?
You supposed to be happy your pops is out.
Mo?
You don't see me working?
-Why didn't you come find me? -I been busy.
Can I come live with you?
You lost your mind?
I can get a job.
-No. -I can help pay for the rent.
No. I said no!
Shit.
What you need me for anyway?
Look at you. You a grown woman now.
You do your thing, I'll do mine. We see each other round the way.
I talked to him. He got a job now.
-Like, a real job. -Have a seat.
You can find out where he live, right?
First we need to discuss what happened at Nadège's.
-I had to get the rest of my shit. -We had an agreement, Mo.
You'd let me know if anything was missing, and I'd send someone.
I don't trust that bitch.
And as your social worker, if I can't trust you, I can't help you.
Not gonna need your help when I move in with my dad.
We talked about this, Mo.
He's not your legal guardian anymore.
Well...
he said he wanted to adopt me, so...
I know the last few homes have been difficult.
But I do think Lucila...
could be a really good family--
No, she's not my fucking family!
You lucky you skipped algebra.
Ms. Nestor gave us a quiz, and I swear that shit wasn't even math.
What, you not talking to me now? What'd I do?
Watch it.
-Say that shit to my face! -[Omari] Mo.
-[screams] -[Omari] Watch out! Mo, chill!
Get off of me! Bitch, if you don't get off of me...
-[Omari] Mo! -Fuck you!
-Calm down. -[boy] She started it!
Get the fuck off me!
This is the third fight this month.
As I've explained to Monique, she'll be suspended for three days.
She needs a positive outlet to channel that anger.
[principal] I'd love to see her reach her potential.
She's been given many opportunities, but I cannot allow this kind of behavior.
[man] What's going on? What's going on...
with the door and the trash?
We gotta go. Come on. Here we go.
[Mo] Give me that.
♪ You're a lot the same ♪
Remember when your pops used to make us wrestle for stupid shit, like...
Happy Meal toys?
You cried like a baby over that tow truck.
Hey, Mater was the shit.
Besides, you only won 'cause you cheated.
[woman] Hurry up.
You gonna be late.
-I told you about coming round here. -Please. Like you own this block.
I'm coming from wrestling practice, if you so nosey.
Coach say I'm gonna be his best lightweight.
They got a girls' wrestling team?
Nah, I'ma wrestle boys.
Never heard of no girls wrestling on no boys' team.
Yeah, well... I'm better than you.
That right?
Come see for yourself.
Cut them nails before you hit the mat.
'Sup, troublemaker?
Still letting people on the team?
Practice starts at three.
Gives you exactly four minutes to stop wasting my time.
-You ain't hear me? -Coach, you need anything?
I said, you still letting people on the team?
It's a boys' team.
Could've fooled me.
Besides, I need a positive outlet for my anger.
Right, Coach?
No one here's interested in your games.
-You see me talking to you? -[Coach] Hey.
You wanna try out?
-[boy] Coach, you ain't serious. -Take a knee. Now.
-You seen what she did to my girl? -A knee.
[Coach] How many of you missed this morning's run?
Fifty push-ups, now.
-One. -Damn! They all get punished?
What you waiting on?
[boys] ...three, four...
-[Coach] You like your earlobes? -...five, six...
Don't even think about getting on my mat in those things.
-...nine, ten... -["The Anthem" playing]
What are you doing?
-What it look like? -[Coach] Pick it up. Pick it up.
-What it look like? -[Coach] Pick it up. Pick it up. ♪ It's time ♪
♪ Who is it? ♪ [Coach] Do those rolls. Come on, Monique.
[Coach] Do those rolls. Come on, Monique. ♪ From the block to the bar For the rimmy on the rocks ♪
Step deep, stay low.
[Coach] Keep your center low. Elbows in. ♪ Left pass and around To my mansion there ♪
♪ Take boys in the club... ♪ One knee, keep the head up. Quick transfer to the double.
Keep your head up.
Drive through with the ear and your left leg.
-[thud] -All right.
Good, good, good. Okay, partner up.
One, two.
[Mo] Omari.
Practice with me.
-Me and Jorge usually partner. -So?
Let him practice with somebody else.
-[Coach] Switch. -[chuckles]
[stammers] It don't look right.
[Coach] Get your head out fast. Come on.
How you gonna say that when I been showing you shit for years?
Your pops' the one who been showing us.
-He only showing me now. -[Omari] What?
-[Mo] Who you think training me? -Get your girl in line.
Go eat some more tacos, fat-ass.
-Shut the fuck up. -[Coach] Hey.
Anyone planning to stay on this team better be drilling now.
Tyson.
Pair up with Mo.
-[boy 1] Yeah, Ty! -[boy 2] Tyson.
What? You ain't never touched a girl? Today's your lucky day.
Hey! Opa! [laughs]
My bad. Come on, let's wrestle.
Damn! Now you a perv, trying to feel some titty?
[boy] Tyson.
Switch with me.
Fucking pussy, yo.
[boy 2] Oh, shit.
[Coach] Other man, switch. Malik.
Stick to the drill.
[Darrel] Ain't nothing in it for a dude.
You beat a girl, you look like a motherfucking roughneck,
don't know how to treat a female. Get beat, you a straight bitch.
So how's that my fault?
Remember that one time I took you to get your hair braided?
You were small, you were walking around all proud,
like you some type of queen.
The girl across the hall from your grandma called you ugly.
Gave her a bloody nose, too. Ain't never talk to me like that again.
When I came home and told you, you slapped me upside the head.
Remember why?
'Cause I ain't raise you...
to give a shit what nobody else think.
[Coach] Got our first match in two weeks. ♪ 'Cause ain't shit in this world Gonna break me ♪
[Coach] Don't know how any of you expect to make weight
[Coach] Don't know how any of you expect to make weight if you can't even get your asses up for morning run.
I'll be watching to see who's ready for varsity.
[Lucila] Monique. Monique.
What?
Think you cute dressing your baby all bougie for church?
[in Spanish] Have you seen my pearls?
English, lady.
I'll pray for you.
[Coach] Ten more seconds. Finish strong.
-[boy] Let's go, champ. -[Coach] Come on, wrestle hard.
-Oh, shit. -Come on. Come on, yo.
-Chad, nine. Chris, four. -Yeah!
All right, next up.
-Next up. -[Jorge] Come on, O.
[boy] Go ahead, O.
-Let's get it, kid. -[Coach] That's enough.
That's enough. Omari.
You wresting off of 120, or you busy wetting your pants?
[boy] Put her in her place, man.
[boy 2] Drop her ass.
-There it go. -Yeah.
-Let's get that. -There you go.
Duck under, man.
Don't tie up. Wrestle hard. Let's go, O.
[Coach] Enough dancing, somebody take a shot.
-See what I mean? -Oh, damn!
-Sweep. -Let's go, O. Get up.
Come on, O. Get out of that shit.
Here we go.
Come on, bro. She mad scrawny.
I would end this shit in 30 seconds.
Get her down, O.
No, no, no.
Damn. You gonna let a girl dominate? Get up, O. Get up.
Get up, O. Get up.
-Oh! Shit. -[whistle blows]
Damn, O.
[Coach] We got ourselves a new starter.
Get that signed before Saturday's match.
[boy] Thought we was gonna have to call the ambulance.
[Omari] Yeah, okay, okay.
You couldn't beat a girl. What are you doing?
You so shook, you ain't even give me a chance to take you
-and your big titties down. -[boy] Oh!
Yo, you like it rough, huh?
-I'm down with that. -Nigga, please.
Y'all too busy jerking each other off at McDonald's to make morning run?
-Oh, shit. -She's right.
All ya'll fucking lazy.
Yo, Mo, is it true your dad trains you?
Yeah. So?
Omari said he won states.
He gonna come to the match?
He'll be there.
By a hundred-pound girl.
She was on your ass.
I let her win. You heard her.
She said, "My dad trained me."
[Darrel] Still need to lay low.
Yo, what up, shorty?
You remember Monique?
Yeah, I seen her round the way.
Growing up real nice, just like her mommy.
[Darrel] What you need?
Nothing. Just came to let you know I made varsity.
No shit?
What type of team you make, baby girl?
They got girls wrestling now. You believe that shit?
[man laughs] Yeah, I can believe that.
I seen some bitches get nastier than my pits.
[Darrel] She got her pops' fighting genes, I guess.
We got our first match on Saturday.
I'd like to see that.
All right, that it?
Starts at four. Hedgeman.
All right, then.
-[man] So she's staying by you again? -[Darrel] Nah.
[man] You know I got a living situation set up for you.
-[Darrel] Gotta think about it. -[man] What you mean, think about it?
You gotta think about that?
[woman] You don't answer her calls.
-You come home beat up. -The fuck's she talking about?
[in Spanish] Look. Covered in bruises.
[Mo] Ain't like she think.
[woman] She's also missing some jewelry.
I told her I ain't steal her ugly-ass earrings.
There's a group home in the Bronx that has a spot open.
The Bronx? You know how far that is from my school?
-[woman] There's a school near the home. -No, look.
That wrestling coach she met, he gonna teach me, like...
discipline and all that.
See?
-[woman] Wrestling? -Yeah.
[in Spanish] What's she saying? What's wrestling?
[in Spanish] I think... she joined the wrestling team at her school.
Wrestling?
Like with costumes?
No, like in high school. The sport.
But that's not for girls.
Ask him, he gonna keep me out of trouble. I swear.
[Coach] Let's go.
Jamal, get your legs back.
[boy] What?
-[whistle blows] -[Coach] Let's go.
You know you gotta go beast on their asses, right?
[Coach] Come on, ref, make 'em wrestle.
[Coach] Get to your base. Get to your base.
[Malik] They fit all right?
Yeah. Thanks.
Gotta loosen up.
You'll be all right.
Plus, the kid you're wrestling, he's a freshman.
Besides, he ain't seen your magic weapon.
Mo. You're up.
Remember, keep him in front of you, and don't tie up.
Look for the shot.
Hey, hey, where's your head at?
All right? Okay.
Seriously?
-How's this even allowed? -How are you even allowed?
-'Cause I'm a dude. -Why you crying like a bitch?
Mo, cool it!
Knock that off. You're here to wrestle.
In the middle.
Shake hands.
Let's go. Shake hands.
[Coach] Let's go, Mo! Let's go!
Stop him.
Keep him in front of you.
-[teammates chattering] -[boy] Make it quick, Santo.
[Coach] Don't tie up!
[man] Work the score.
[Coach] Take a shot. Take a shot.
-[referee] Two. -That's it!
That's it! That's it!
[Coach] Off your back! Off your back!
[referee] Two.
[Coach] Come on.
-[referee] Three. -[Coach] Bridge!
[referee] Four.
Okay, it's Red's choice.
Red chose top. Green, set up.
Red, get set.
[Coach] Up and out, Mo. Up and out.
[referee] Easy.
[Coach] Come on, Mo.
[boy 1] Come on, Mo.
[boy 2] Let's go, Mo! Let's go, Mo!
-Come on, Mo! -[referee] One, green.
One.
Two.
Three.
-[Coach] Get off your back! -[referee] Four.
-Get up! Off your back. -[referee] Five.
-[Coach] Get to your base. -[referee] That's three near falls.
Red.
[Coach] Come on, Mo! Break the hand.
[referee] One escape. Green.
[Coach] Good! Good!
[referee] Two! Takedown, green. One.
Keep him down.
[referee] Two.
-Three. -[Darrel] Lift the head.
-[referee] Four. -Lift the head.
[referee] Five.
[Coach] That's it! That's it! Right there!
[referee] Winner is green.
[Darrel] Let me get a shrimp-fried rice.
[woman] What size you want?
Let me get a... small.
Gotta watch that weight, right?
Tell you what, you don't appreciate your own room
until you share a cell with a mental case.
This one foster home, I had to share a room with six kids.
-Place smelled like shit. -Yeah, well...
Juan know he owe me, so...
You working for him again?
You stupid? Nah.
Working for him?
This is just like payback.
Know what I mean? Back pay.
I'm gonna save up a little bit...
then I'm out.
-Where you going? -North Carolina.
-Aunt Keisha's? -You remember her?
She still got that crazy dog?
-Russell? Russell wasn't crazy. -That dog was definitely crazy.
He tried to bite my arm. I still got the marks.
'Cause you and your cousins used to try to ride his ass.
Remember that one time we pinned his ears back?
And you wonder why he bit you. Shit.
Even a dog got some pride.
We should've never came back here.
Shit don't always work out the way it's supposed to.
My boy Jay get out, we gonna open this car wash...
down in Greensboro.
-For real? -Yeah.
Jay know the owner.
Car wash been sitting empty at the dude's gas station.
We gonna go 50-50 on the whole thing.
We ain't gonna be nobody's bitch.
I don't really…
I don't really see it. Where's my counter gonna be at again?
Come on, man. You know I know how to upsell.
Watch me double your take.
[Coach chanting] Mini Mo! Mini Mo!
[Coach] When's the last time Hedgeman made playoffs?
-[boys] Never. -[Coach] How'd you like to change that?
-[all] Yeah! -[Coach] Come on, now!
Chop, highlight! Chop, highlight! Highlight!
-[whistle blows] -There we go!
[Mo] You see his face when I hit the reverse? I'm like a snake.
Just when you think you got me...
-Watch me go all the way to cities. -First time I went to cities,
I had a clean record.
Not one loss.
Damn.
Go in there head all big. Get on the mat.
Dude half my size come at me frothing at the mouth
like he got rabies.
I'm like, "Who the hell is this little bulldog?"
Man, that kid had bite.
-He beat you? -You stupid?
Nah.
They match the best with the worst records in the first round.
This kid come in knowing he got one shot.
It's sink or swim, and this motherfucker did not want to drown.
Sometimes wanting it that bad is enough.
Unfortunately, not when you messing with the king.
[woman] As soon as she's mobile, you'll wanna get those cabinet locks.
-Especially in the kitchen. -[Lucila] Yes, yes. I make good.
[woman] I don't wanna promise anything, but...
I think there's a very good chance you'll be able to adopt her.
[Lucila] There is Monique.
The one in the other room.
Hi, Monique. I'm June, Nyasa's social worker.
I understand you moved in not too long ago.
How do you like living here?
I ain't gonna be here long.
She can have my room soon enough.
♪ I'm a real nigga taking real hits You just another Horowitz ♪
♪ When I shoot, I take you down ♪
♪ You a clown ♪
♪ I'm Ghostface, you Action Bronson ♪
[Jamal] Yo, listen, listen, listen!
♪ Niggas just be fertile When I sit on the money ♪
♪ They gonna feel like they dead And we going to finals ♪
♪ This shit is viral ♪
♪ Nobody can rival ♪
♪ No, I ain't gonna rhyme that ♪
♪ Bust it! Bust it! Bust it! ♪
You coming in or not?
Thought you said you was done with Juan.
You want me cleaning up rat shit and picking up trash?
Ain't no punk-ass boss stealing from me.
So my girl going to playoffs.
Go in there and get my smokes.
I don't see none in here.
You practicing that bear hug?
Yeah.
So, what you waiting for?
What?
Nothing.
Go ahead, set up.
Uh-uh. Nah, nah, nah, look.
You can't do nothing.
Pin this arm. Let me see.
Grab me.
Pop the arm.
Gonna pin his down...
and drive through.
You feel me?
Go ahead.
Sit down.
They better have wrestling teams in Greensboro.
Let's try again.
Come on.
[Darrel] In a minute.
We gotta paint that car wash something fresh.
Think people getting their car washed somewhere 'cause of a color?
Hell, yeah.
Think people getting their car washed in some boring joint?
You gotta get niggas with the fly-ass rims,
dope-ass set of seats. Detailing?
That's where the money at, yo.
All right.
All right, what color you think get the most business?
That's easy. Gold.
-What? -Where the fuck you get this from?
[Mo] It's called vision, man.
-Ain't my fault you ain't got none. -Watch out.
Oh, now you the one with the ideas?
Hey!
[Darrel] I got the arm.
I got the arm.
-I got the head. Just giving me every-- -Oh!
Mo, on his back.
-[boy 1] Cover. -[boy 2] Come on, Mo.
[boy 3] Take him down, Mo.
[all chanting]Mini Mo! Mini Mo! Mini Mo!
[Omari] Yo, you heard?
Jorge's brother's bringing his dirt bike after Coach's thing.
-Word? -He gonna let me ride.
I'm gonna pop a wheelie and everything.
What?
It's easy. I seen it on YouTube. Just let go of the clutch and pop.
Yeah, all right.
-You down? -No, I got plans.
Juan got you walking his dogs again?
Hell, no.
"You better bring their asses back clean. Don't want no shit on my Persians."
Yo, shut up.
I heard he brushes his dogs' teeth with an electronic toothbrush.
-[Darrel] Yo, you ready? -Give me a sec.
What you sulking for, string bean?
Keep on drinking them protein shakes, you'll get your glory soon enough.
[Coach] It's Darrel, right?
I hear she takes after you.
It's in the blood, I guess.
[Coach chuckles] Well, you're a stronger man than me.
If my daughter wanted to wrestle, I'd... [chuckles]
Where'd you wrestle at?
Five-six-nine.
I was at collegiate. Probably before your time.
-Oh, yeah, probably. -[Mo] All right.
We gotta bounce.
I'm taking the team out for a bite if you'd like to join us.
Unless, uh... there's somewhere else you gotta be.
-Yeah, at work. -I thought we was hanging out?
[Darrel] Maybe later.
-But you said we was-- -Plans change... Mo.
Besides, team gotta bond and all that. Ain't that right, Coach?
Yeah.
You got it.
[Darrel] Call me later.
[Malik] You gotta slow down. You gonna crash.
-I got this. -You gonna crash.
-[Mo] Oh! -I told you.
-Game cheated, yo. -I told you.
The problem is your driving's worse than your wrestling. That's what's...
That's the real deal.
-Now what? -You all in my ear.
-Get your stink breath out my face. -[Malik] Then do something.
We about to do a pull-up contest. You coming?
Yo. I thought you was gonna pop a wheelie. Yeah, what happened?
We came for the show.
I told you my brother had a race. I said that.
Whatever. Mo, you coming?
-No, I'ma chill here. -Whatever.
For real, though, we make it to finals...
it's like a whole bunch of recruiters that come. [Jamal] Mm-hm.
-Bet you get a scholarship. -Yeah!
Our little prince right here is gonna get a free ride to college.
Whatever, man. Whatever, man.
You gonna be coming by my place every weekend
trying to holla at some college hos.
I will be prying them off my dick, bro. 'Sup, shorty?
You want a ride? Look-- Oh.
My bad, he ain't take his meds.
Why you trying to fuck up my game for?
What game? What game?
Exactly.
Anyway... there's mad women's teams in college now.
-[cell phone ringing] -You know?
What's up, beautiful?
No, no, we just chilling.
-[low bark] -[Mo] Where we going? -[Darrel] Just... Just wait. Just wait. -This where Juan do them dog fights?
-[Darrel] Just... Just wait. Just wait. -This where Juan do them dog fights?
Nah.
Nah, this the real shit.
[MC] All right, y'all. Tonight, we got three-time Brownsville champ...
It's the real fight right here.
[MC] ...Keisha the Killer. Make some noise for Keisha!
But don't be fooled,
'cause Miss Lala, she may look skinny,
but she ain't come all the way from Flatbush to eat shit.
Give it up for Miss Lala.
-Where's the money at? -They boxers?
-[MC] Show your bets. -Nah, kid, they fiercer than that.
[MC] All right, ladies, center of the ring. No biting, no scratching, no hair pulling, no weapons. Got it?
No biting, no scratching, no hair pulling, no weapons. Got it?
Ya'll give it up for Keisha the Killer!
[Darrel] Go ahead, eat.
That's cool, I can't eat. We got another match on Saturday.
Malik said there might be college recruiters.
Oh! Well, if Malik say--
Stop playing. [chuckles]
They got women's teams now.
College cool...
and all that, until you get hit with real responsibilities.
When your mom passed…
I did what I had to do. I didn't have no choice.
Can't wait till I make my own money, get my own place.
Well, if I could, I'd be in the ring like them girls tonight.
-[chuckles] -Them girls on some other shit.
I think that one girl got her jaw broke.
But you know how much money they make?
Shit.
You said the money was good with Juan.
You said you was saving up for the car wash.
Yeah, well, Jay didn't make parole.
So, unless I can come up with his half...
and quick, ain't gonna be no car wash.
Fuck, Monique!
Shit. The minute I get out, you in my grill to take care of you.
-I told you it ain't like that. -Did you make varsity or not?
-Yeah. -Ain't none of them girls
training on no boys' wrestling team.
You already had an advantage.
You working out with dudes, and you training with me.
One fight, you can make as much as I make in a week working the lot.
Fact is...
if I don't come up with ten Gs
in the next two weeks, owner gonna sell the wash to somebody else. I'm...
I'm doing my part.
We both know what happen if I keep working for Juan.
Fuck it!
Fuck it. Fuck it.
Fuck it. It's stupid. I'm stupid.
I'm stupid.
-I ain't say-- -I shouldn't have took your ass there.
-I'm saying the money-- -Eat if you gonna eat. Shit. I gotta...
I gotta get back to the lot.
Damn! No wonder you ain't make varsity.
You wouldn't be starting if I hadn't let you win.
How come everybody saw me take your ass down?
[Coach] Watch his down. Chest to back, and spin.
[Omari] Oh, Juan buy you those kicks, too?
At least my dad comes to my matches.
Your mom's too busy taking her clothes off for random niggas.
[woman] What?
What's wrong? What? What, what, what?
[Lucila] She probably hungry.
Nyasa mom here.
[woman] What's wrong? You not happy to see Mommy?
Just...
Here. I gotta use the toilet.
You should be happy for her.
She should be with her real mom.
[man] Come on, Nicholas. Come on, let's go.
Nice and easy.
Let's get this done.
Lower your anklets.
[Coach] All right, Mo.
Shake hands.
[Coach] Take a shot.
Get to your bridge! Build up! Build up!
That's it. Get in there, Mo.
Where's that fire? Get in there.
Build up! Build up! Build up!
Build up!
Get up! Get off your back! Off your back!
[referee] Shake hands.
Shake hands. Shake the coaches' hands.
[Coach] Hey!
What the hell happened out there?
[boys chanting] Let's go, Huskies!
Let's go, Hedgeman! Whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo!
Let's go, Huskies!
Everybody allowed to lose a match.
What's that corny shit Coach say?
There's no such thing as losing, it's just...
It's just winning and learning.
You know how many times my father seen me wrestle?
You get used to it.
[MC] All right, y'all, show your bets.
Where the money at?
You got money on the fat girl?
That girl can do damage.
Trust.
[MC] Where the money at? Come on.
Don't be cheap.
What, y'all sleeping?
How much we need for the car wash?
You and me dump Juan and get the fuck out of here.
[MC] The rules: no biting, no scratching,
no weapons, no hair pulling. Y'all got it?
Couple of fights...
we'll be good.
[MC] All right, ladies, center of the ring.
Jab. Jab, jab.
That's your combination. Jab straight up.
Just when they think they got you, mix it up.
Why do that when I can just do this?
This ain't wrestling. Shoot on somebody like that,
you gonna get your grill knocked out.
-[Coach] Mo! -[whistle blows]
Straight. Jab, jab, straight.
-Come on. -Jab, jab, straight. Jab, jab, straight.
One, two. Uppercut, uppercut.
Get in there. Grab my fucking neck.
Grab. Grab the neck. All right, come on. One, two.
-[whistle blows] -[Coach] Hey!
What the hell are you doing?
It's all right, I got it, Coach. Guys, have a seat.
It's all right, I got it, Coach. Guys, have a seat. ♪ Price of freedom getting higher Future on consignment ♪
[boy] Let's go, Mo!
[chanting] Mini Mo! Mini Mo!
[Coach] Let's go, let's go!
♪ We goin' to finals We goin' to finals ♪
♪ We goin' to finals We goin' to finals ♪ ♪ We goin' to finals We goin' to finals ♪
♪ We goin' to finals We goin' to finals ♪ ♪ We goin' to finals We goin' to finals ♪ ♪ We goin' to finals ♪
Where the fuck you been? I been calling and texting all night.
[Mo] What? My ringer was off.
I told you to keep your phone on vibrate. You about to miss the fight.
-What? -Hurry up, let's go.
-Tonight? -Yes, tonight. Goddamn. Shit.
You lucky Juan kept your spot.
[boy 2] Only had 20 pounds on me, too.
[boy 3] What you talking about? I had double unders.
[MC] All right, y'all.
So, tonight, we got a few virgin fighters in the building.
So, I'ma need y'all to put y'all hands together,
'cause we 'bout to turn up. Let's do it.
Who the girl?
Juan cousin. Don't worry, she ain't got nothing on you.
-[MC] All right, ladies. -Show her who the queen.
[MC] To the middle.
Y'all know what time it is, right?
Gonna need y'all to try to make this as clean as possible.
All right, got it? So, dap it up.
And on my whistle,
turn up.
What you running for? Get back in there.
Come on, Naya.
Come on, Naya. Quit playing with her.
-There it is. -Get up, get up, get up.
-There it is. -Get up, get up, get up. What you running for?
Yeah!
Mo. Mo.
You lost your fucking mind?
What, you stalking me now?
-What's wrong with you? -With me?
The hell you doing in there, Mo? We're one match away from finals.
What's Coach gonna say when he sees your face?
[Mo] Coach not gonna say shit.
'Cause Coach not gonna know shit. I swear, O,
-you open your mouth-- -[Darrel] What'd I tell you?
Them girls ain't got nothing on you.
What up, O?
You see your girl get real in there?
Yeah.
She did good.
Anyways, I gotta go.
[Darrel] You be safe.
What'd I tell you?
I didn't say shit. He came here by hisself.
Besides, he's not gonna say nothing.
Where's the money?
Go ahead, feel that.
Five hundred?
-You said winner take a G. -What you want it for?
You lucky he even let you have a fight.
It was just a warm-up.
I'll tell you when you ready for the big leagues.
-["I Got It Made" plays over headphones] -[Darrel] Black Moon.
Das EFX.
Special Ed? This shit is old as me, yo.
Who you think put me onto it?
You're a little mini-me, you know that?
Malik call me Mini Mo.
[mockingly] "Malik call me Mini Mo.
-Malik say I'm fine." -Ain't even like that.
"Malik say I'm fine."
Whatever. He got a girl anyway.
Hey, listen.
Fuck Malik.
You gonna be a legend.
And not just in some...
high school yearbook.
Make a name out here, ain't nobody gonna fuck with you.
Come here.
Come here.
Gotta teach you how to duck.
You can leave now.
Get the fuck out!
[Coach] Lucila wants you off the team.
You and I both know you didn't get punched in the face wrestling.
Now, tell me what's going on with your father,
or I'll pull you off this team myself.
Ain't got nothing to do with him. I got beef with some girl.
My dad runs one of Juan's parking lots. I chill with him sometimes.
He got no place to live, so he sleeps there.
This girl called him homeless, and...
I lost my shit.
Just 'cause I messed up, it ain't the team's fault.
I'm gonna win. We going to finals.
[boy] He's stalling.
He's gonna spank him, bro.
-We can bet money, bro. -[whispering]
[Jamal] He got taken down.
[Jamal] This is why I don't watch white porn.
[boy] You are not watching half the fight, Mo.
We can put money on the fight. [boy 2] Chris been watching the whole thing.
What's up with you? That time of the month?
Why you all...?
Come on. Come on.
How long you been wrestling for?
[Malik] Since I was ten.
Uncle wanted me to start boxing, actually.
I got punched in the mouth one time, and I was like...
"No, thank you."
My nickname was Wrong Way, because every time a fight broke out,
all my friends running towards the shit, I'm running the other way.
They got a medical term for that. It's called no balls-itis.
Yeah, well... when my dad came back around...
I almost got thrown off the team.
Tried to work the corners with him and be tough...
You, dealing? I'd have loved to see that.
If it wasn't for Coach riding my ass, showing up to my house,
I would've dropped out.
-Coach pay you to tell me that? -What?
[scoffs] Fuck, no.
You sound like one of them guest speakers.
-"Stay in school, kids. Don't do drugs." -[Malik laughs]
Yeah, well... would've been one corny ass gangster.
Damn, what do all these schools want you for?
-These the good schools. -'Cause I put in the work.
Not like you. Look at yo ass. You just faking.
You think you a real wrestler.
-[Mo] Whatever. -You think you're a wrestler.
Now who the king?
-[door opens] -[girl] Please--
-I thought you had more class. -[Malik] Ain't what you think. Nathalie.
It ain't what you think.
-How about what I see? -It ain't mean nothing.
-[Nathalie] What are you talking about? -[Malik] We don't mean nothing.
Nathalie, just...
-[Omari] You fucked him? -Move out the way.
You know she's pregnant?
-I'm not playing. -She was right.
You'll let anybody fuck you.
I'm ready for the real shit.
Gotta get the fuck out of here.
Watch these girls and learn.
[Coach] The underhook. Fake and set single. Snap down.
Good. Shuck. Release that forearm.
Circle. Good, do it again.
All right. One, two.
That's not an underhook. You holding hands with him, Tyson.
Who taught you to shuck? Do it again.
Actually, Coach...
I'm kinda having some... female issues.
You worried about weight?
Nah, I'll be good if I don't eat. I just...
What color do you like?
I'm not allowed to have nails 'cause of wrestling.
I make nice for you.
[in Spanish] Good luck for tomorrow.
How come you never had your own babies?
[in English] God no...
[in Spanish] God wouldn't let me.
[Coach] Okay, listen up. Remember...
there's no such thing as losing.
There's only winning...
and learning.
I want you to take pride in how far you've come,
and have faith in how far you can go.
All right? Bring it in.
Give me some love.
-Winners never quit. -[all] Quitters never win.
-[Coach] One, two, three! -[all] Hedgeman!
-[Coach] Three, two, one! -[all] Huskies!
[announcer over PA] Hedgeman High is happy to welcome Garner for the last match of the season.
I know you're all excited.
We'll be getting started in a few minutes.
How you feeling today?
-I'm good. -Good.
-I'm counting on you. -[whistle blows]
[Coach] Get the hand-off! Look away!
[referee] We've got a takedown. One. Two.
[woman] You got it! You got this! You got this! You got this!
[referee] Okay, let's go. Top man, work something.
I know shit got messed up the other night.
I crossed the line. Big time.
We family now.
I got a family.
Really?
What kind of father does that to his daughter's face?
What kind of father ditches his kid for college?
[Coach] Look away. Rip 'em off. There you go.
[referee] That's a warning.
Better work something, top man.
That's one.
Two.
Three.
Four.
That's two near falls.
Continue to work.
[Coach] Come on, ref, make 'em wrestle!
[referee] One.
Two.
Three.
Two near falls.
Go, bottom man. Try to work something.
[Coach] Don't give nothing away.
No, go to your base. Control his hands.
Get off your back!
-Off your back! -[referee] One.
Two.
Three.
Four.
Five.
Hold on three, top man.
You lose your match, we ain't going to finals.
Then you'd better win.
-[Darrel] What you need all that for? -I can't go back there now.
[MC] All right, let's go!
-[Darrel] Go ahead, warm up. -What about my shit?
What? It's fine.
-Somebody gonna steal it. -[Darrel] It's fine.
Go ahead, warm up. Go ahead. Get in there.
[MC] We got some fresh talent in the house.
We about to get started.
-Settle down. Settle down. -[indistinct chatter]
Tonight, we gonna see if King D's fresh talent
can face one of Brownsville's toughest:
-Ms. Cheryl! -[crowd cheering]
-[man] Real champ right here. -[MC] Show me your bets.
Kill her, Mama.
[MC] Show me your bets.
Listen up. Tonight's your night. There's five Gs with your name on it.
But you gotta win.
All right, now, show your bets. Show your bets. Let's go.
So, listen.
No biting,
no scratching, no hair pulling,
no weapons. Y'all got it?
All right, dap it up.
-All right, y'all. -[bell rings]
Come on, Mo. You gotta fight back! Go!
Put your damn fists up!
Break it up. Break it up.
We got a fight tonight!
-Mo, what the fuck you doing out there? -She's all over me.
You said you wanted to fight. This is it.
Now, you gonna sink or swim?
Come on, Mo, you gotta fight back! Move your feet!
Come on, Mo!
[MC] No grabbing hair!
Stop the fucking round!
[MC] All right. All right. Break it up.
Break it up. Hey, you okay?
Go to the corner.
You go to your corner.
Mo, next time she hit you, just go down and stay down.
-What? -You ain't ready for this.
-I ain't no quitter. -Mo!
-[bell rings] -Monique!
[Darrel whispers] Stay down, stay down, stay down.
Beat her ass, Mo! Beat her ass, Mo!
Yeah! Yeah!
Yeah!
-That's it! That's it! We got it! -[siren wailing]
[man] Yo, it's the police! Let's go!
Come on!
-[Mo] I won. You seen it, right? -We gotta split up.
-Where the fuck you want me to go? -I don't know.
-Go back to the Spanish lady house. -Like this?
See seen me leaving the match. She'll know.
If I get caught, you know where I'ma wind up.
-You get the money? -You don't listen!
I'll call you when we clear, all right?
You the queen.
Mo. All right? You gonna be a legend. Don't worry about all that.
You the queen!
What about my stuff?
[cop] Yeah, right over here.
We got the perimeter surrounded.
Wow, look at this.
Jesus.
What?
What y'all looking at?
One stupid motherfucking wrestler.
[Mo] You win?
I taught you good.
[Coach] Hey.
Keep icing.
You understand I'm legally obligated to report him?
When I was a kid, I used to think I was mad lucky.
Most of my friends didn't know their dad, maybe for like...
five minutes on their birthday or something, but...
I was living with mine.
I wanted one of those Razor scooters so bad.
Wouldn't shut up about it. [chuckles, sniffs]
One day, D brought one home for me.
Told me... to make sure I only rode them in Tilden Projects.
But I was mad proud.
Rode that shit everywhere.
One day, this kid at Marcus Garvey...
seen me with it and said it was his.
Said he carved his initials in the handle.
Seen 'em, too.
I told him my dad bought it new and would fuck him up.
Kid started stalking me.
One day, he seen me with D, and...
ratted him out to the cops.
They found out he'd been robbing people for Juan.
You were a kid, Mo.
You're not responsible for your father.
I'm gonna do right.
I swear, just...
don't make my dad do no more time 'cause of me.
My mom says you can stay in Tanya's room as long as you want.
She sleeps in my mom's bed anyway.
[Coach] I know. I know.
I'm very sorry for everything I've done.
And...
you're the only foster mom never kicked me out.
And...
You be a good girl now.
[woman] Quit crying. Come on. Why you always crying?
Come on, stop crying. Stop crying. Stop crying.
I know. I know. It's all right.
Okay.
[Coach] She not only let herself down, she let the whole team down.
So, I put it to the group to decide.
Should she be suspended from finals or not?
Omari had't won for her, we wouldn't even be going to finals.
[boy 1] Yeah, that's true.
[boy 2] Yeah.
Everybody has a right to make a mistake.
That was a big one.
But we gotta think about what's best for the team.
It's our first year going to finals. And all respect to Omari for stepping up, but...
And all respect to Omari for stepping up, but...
Mo's been killing it all season.
Mo...
you have anything to add?
I'm gonna do whatever's best for the team.
Whatever y'all think that is.
Let's put it to a vote. All in favor of Mo starting on Friday.
[Omari] Mo.
-[boys chattering] -Mo.
Monique.
-You got my bag? -Why would I?
'Cause you stupid. Check yours. Mine is missing.
Yeah. You lucky I asked. Would've had to save your ass. Again.
You lucky you got big feet, or I would've worn 'em anyway. Now move.
-Hey, where you going? -I forgot my bag inside.
Mo.
Nice hair.
Thanks.
[boy 3] Get it, girl!
Girl, this ain't a runway. Get out of here. Hurry up.
[Darrel] Monique.
You got a match?
Now you the one hard to reach.
Fame getting to you?
Look, I know shit got fucked up.
I felt bad leaving after the fight.
For real.
But you...
You know I couldn't get caught near all that. Mo. Mo, I...
I tried to double our earnings.
I was up for a little while, too.
Mo. Monique.
[stammers] I just... I just got excited.
That's all.
Seeing you in the ring, on that mat...
it reminded me of me. All that flying.
You could do something with that.
I know.
How about we start our own thing?
Dude I know, he got a gym, and we--
Mo.
Monique.
Oh, it's like that now?
Too good for your own pops now?
[Coach] Jamal here?
All right. Chad? Where's Chad?
-[boy] Yo, we gonna hook in. -[Coach] All right, so...
we got one, two, three, four, five, six,
-seven, eight, nine. Where's Tyson? -[bus engine starts]
Somebody call and see if he's coming on his own.
I'm not waiting more than five minutes.
[Mo] Dad.
[Darrel] All right, don't...
Don't go soft on me now.
How long you had my notebook?
-[Coach] Y'all ready to go to finals? -[boy] We're going to finals!
[all] Yeah!
[all chanting] Let's go, Hedgeman!
Let's go, Hedgeman!
Let's go, Huskies!
Let's go, Hedgeman!
Let's go, Huskies! Whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo, whoo!
Let's go, Huskies!
Let's go, Hedgeman!
Hi, Amanda.
-[Amanda] Hi. -Oh, my God.
-How are you? -I am, um... I am really good.
-[Amanda] How are you? -I'm good.
-How are you? Did I ask that already? -You did.
-Okay. -But I'm happy to-- Happy to tell you again.
-You're good? -Yeah.
[Jim] Great. So you, uh... Um, I've... You...
-Are you living here now or are you...? -Oh, no, no. I'm...
I'm-- I'm here to see my sister.
-Okay. Yeah. -You remember, I'm sure. Yeah.
-Lisa-Lisa. -Yeah.
-Getting... Cooking, just... -Mm-hmm.
[Amanda] Some grated ginger and capers and...
ice cream.
-I didn't brush my teeth. -[chuckles]
Um, that's why I'm licking my teeth a lot right now.
So anyway, I didn't want to hold you, obviously if you have...
-Yeah. -Cool.
-Yeah. Okay. -Um...
-All right. -Yeah.
[softly] Fuck.
-Thirteen cents is your change. -Thanks.
-[cashier] Have a wonderful evening. -Thanks.
-This is my car. So... -It's...
-[Jim] Too weird. -Weird. [chuckles]
[Jim] Hey, do you want to get a coffee?
Maybe?
Sure.
-[Amanda] Yes. -[Jim] Great.
[Jim] Yeah, good.
It's good.
Good. Yeah.
I heard about your mom.
I was really sorry to hear it. Oh, yeah, thanks. You know, she, um...
She was sick for a little bit. So it was... You know, we were prepared for it.
-But thanks. -I know, yeah.
But, um, we've been... We were clearing out her house a little bit.
And I think I'm gonna fix it up and... maybe sell it.
-So... -Fix it up yourself? Yeah. That's kind of what I do.
Work on houses and stuff.
You build them? You do all the--?
I mostly do drywall stuff. Um...
-Huh. -My Uncle John runs a business. So I got caught up with him, like...
You know, we did work in New Orleans after Katrina and then...
-It's boring as shit, but anyway... -It's not boring.
I didn't know that that's what you were doing.
Yeah, it's, it's, um... It's good. So it's steady and it's consistent.
And, um... Yeah, it's cool. It's fun.
-What? I don't know. You seem... -What? I don't know.
Yeah. Yeah. No, it's good. It's like, um...
I ended up in Tucson and, um, it's great.
It's a really nice, warm climate and I dig it.
-Oh, it's too hot. -No, it's good.
It's better, you know... It's not like here. So, um...
That's what I've been doing. -Wow. -Yeah.
-Huh. Yeah, my parents moved to Florida. -Tucson. Warm. Good.
-To be warm. -Yeah.
-What? -They may move back.
-They may have to move back. -Yeah. What's going on?
My sister's having a baby.
Yeah, that's-- That's the... the grandparent pressure.
-Yeah. Yeah. -You know?
-You're not married, huh? -No. No, no, no. Married to the work.
-Married to the drywall. -To the work.
Which is how I like it, you know, it's good.
It's really good for me. I think that's how I-- Yeah.
It's really good for me. I think that's how I-- Yeah. It's good and, um...
[clicks tongue] It's right for me. You know?
Are you okay?
-Yeah. -You okay?
[whispers] I'm trying to get through this coffee. -[laughs] -This coffee is terrible.
-The Blue Jay has gone downhill. -Yeah.
-What? -Tell me about your husband.
-Really? -Yeah.
[Amanda] Oh, God, I don't even know where to start.
I got really lucky.
He's a really incredibly supportive, very nurturing, wonderful guy.
His name is Chris, and when I met him, he had two small boys.
And so...
Boom. Insta... Instamom.
And his ex-wife was... was really wonderful to me.
I don't know, their whole childhood... We had a week with them and a week off.
And so, you know, one week it's just the two of us.
We can do whatever we want, whenever we want to,
and footloose and fancy free, and... the next week,
it's Little League and soccer games, and then studying for the SAT's.
-And college tours, and, you know, so... -Yup.
-[chuckles] -[chuckles] What?
-It's crazy. Right? -It's crazy. Yeah.
It's just crazy. It's great. [sniffles]
-Jim... What? -[laughs]
It's crazy. It's just crazy.
-Would you stop it? -What? I'm not doing anything.
-You are doing something with your face. -I'm not.
I'm not doing anything.
My face leaks. I don't know. What? It's fine.
It's fine. It's fine.
-Good. -Anyway...
[clicks tongue] There's a pregnant woman -waiting for her ice cream. -Oh, yes. God.
-waiting for her ice cream. -Oh, yes. God. I'll walk you to your car.
-Yeah. Yeah, come on. -Okay.
-[Jim] Markum Dental, gone. -[Amanda] Oh, yeah?
[Jim] Yeah, I think you... You had nine, is the record?
-Oh, it might have been more like 11. -Yeah.
That's what happens when you live off of... -jellybeans. -[gasps] Jim.
-jellybeans. -[gasps] Jim.
[Amanda] There's no way.
[Jim] Oh, come on. No. No. That's not possible.
-[Amanda] I think it's him. -[Jim] No, that's his grandson.
He was like 100 in high school.
-[Amanda] That's his hat. -[Jim] Oh, my God.
-[Amanda] That's his hat. -[Jim] Oh, my God. -[Amanda] That's his hat. -Waynie. Travels with Waynie.
-[Amanda] That's his hat. -Waynie. Travels with Waynie.
-What? -Do you think he would remember?
I'm not sure he's alive. -[both laugh] -[Jim] I haven't seen him move yet.
-[Jim] No, he's not gonna remember. -Oh.
That was our dorky thing that we did. That was...
You wanna-- You wanna put a wager on it?
I'll bet you $100 he doesn't remember.
-A hundred dollars? -I'll bet you $100.
-[Jim] No, come on. No. -[door chimes ring]
-Hi, Waynie. -Hi, Waynie.
Hey. What's up?
-We were wanting to go traveling. -Oh.
Uh, you're talking...
Yeah. That's exactly what I'm talking about.
[Waynie] Okay.
-Thanks, Waynie. -Thank you, Waynie.
-I told you. -Come on. You planted that.
I did not. You owe me $100.
-I don't have $100. All right. -Well, you owe me $100.
-Mexico. -Yeah, hit me.
-Hit it. -What you got?
-Japan. -Okay.
-[Amanda] I've got Brooklyn. -[Jim] Germany.
Hey, Waynie, do you have any Zima?
[Waynie] I believe they pulled it off the market.
-[Amanda] Off the market. -Goldschlager?
-[Waynie] We don't carry that anymore. -[Jim] That's not good.
-Uh, Belgium. -[Amanda] Belgium.
[Jim] Jinx.
-Yeah? -Good.
[Waynie] I know who you are now. You're the lovebirds.
-The famous lovebirds -[chuckles]
And you're still together? Right?
-[both chuckle] -What? What? What's the matter? What?
Yeah. Yeah.
-[Waynie] What? -Yeah. It's, you know... It's 24 years.
-Yeah. -Still going strong.
Yeah, we got married, you know.
-[Waynie] Oh, congratulations. -Oh, thanks.
-[Waynie] Congratulations. -Thank you.
I'll get your jellybeans.
-[Amanda chuckles] -All right, what do we owe you?
You don't owe me anything. Your money's no good here.
-Come on. -Come on.
Let an old man buy something, please.
-Make me happy, okay? [chuckles] -[Jim] Okay.
-Congratulations again. -Thanks, Waynie.
-Nice to see you. -[Waynie] Yeah. Good to see you, guys.
-You're looking good. -[door chimes ring]
-You look exactly the same. -[Waynie] Oh, get out of here!
-Come on, now. You're gonna make me cry. -[chuckles]
[Amanda] But I remember there being a...
-[Jim] Mm-mm. -[Amanda] Did they move them? [Jim] That's it. No, that's it. See? Because I used to put my leg...
[Jim] That's it. No, that's it. See? Because I used to put my leg...
-[Amanda] Yeah. -here. Watch.
-[Amanda] Okay. -There we go.
-[Amanda] Hold on. Let's see. -[exhales]
-[Jim] Come on. There it is. -[chuckles]
-[Amanda] Ha! I still got the stuff. -Uh-huh. Yeah.
So, what's next for you? You going back to Tucson or...
[Amanda] You working? -You got a house you're gonna build or... -Um...
I don't know if Tucson is, um...
[Jim] And, uh, I work stuff's kind of up in the air.
-What does that mean? -So...
-Um... -Do you not like doing it? No, it's good. It's, um...
[Jim] I don't know.
I have to admit, there's this small part of me, as I was sitting...
in the old house, and thinking about fixing it up,
and I was starting to think like...
I don't know, maybe... I could stay here. It was interesting to me.
-What would you do here though? -It was just a thought. I don't--
-I mean, it wasn't like a plan, but... -No, I know. No, I...
Don't you want...?
-Why are you grilling me? -I'm not trying to grill you. I'm...
I guess I'm a little worried about you.
-Why are you worried about me? -I don't know. You don't-- You seem...
I don't know, a little lost, or...
I haven't got it all... figured out. But, um... You know.
Isn't there something you want to do?
Amanda, I don't fucking know what I'm doing, okay?
I had lost my job, okay? I lost my job.
I had a falling out with my uncle who was stealing clients from me,
and I beat the fuck out of him, okay?
I beat the living shit out of him.
It was a really scary moment,
and I had a crack, and I feel awful about it and I'm...
I'm sorry, I didn't-- I... [sighs]
So I'm living in Tucson and I don't want to stay there anymore,
but I don't really know where else to go. [sighs]
And it's...
I'm having a...
[softly] I'm just having a hard time, so...
-I'm sorry. Yeah. -[raspberries] I'm not... [chuckles] I'm gonna start crying again.
[chuckles] I'm gonna start crying again.
-Yeah. -This is the thing with me, all right?
-I really think it's your fault, honestly. -Why is it my fault?
You used to give me the best head rubs.
And they used to really take the edge off.
Quit hogging the jellybeans. Give them up.
-Come on. -Give me some jellybeans. Okay?
That's why I'm so sad. -'Cause you won't give me any jellybeans. -[both laugh]
It's also a little hard 'cause you're really impressive.
Your life is really impressive.
-And so, there's a part of me that's... -Yeah.
Just saying.
I don't know. On the way here, I was getting on the plane,
and there was this family.
And this little boy, [chuckles] he was so mad and just... just irate.
he was so mad and just... just irate.
And, of course, he has no way of expressing any of that,
except to sort of just like scream and stomp his feet and...
He was screaming so loud, his tongue was curling to the back of his mouth,
and tears were just, like, you know, springing out of his face.
-He was leaking, you know. -[chuckles]
And I remember looking at him and being very jealous.
-Yeah. That's my soulmate. -[chuckles] Me and that four-year-old.
-That's my soulmate. -Yeah.
I don't know. At some point, we just learn it's better not to do that and...
I don't know at what point.
[Jim] Here.
-You ate a lot of them. -I did eat a lot.
You left me all the pink and purple ones.
[Jim] Yeah. They're your favorites.
What's up?
Lisa-Lisa wants to know where her ice cream is at.
-[chuckles] -Of course.
-Oh, God. -Does she like ice cream soup?
I'm just telling her I ran into someone.
-Oh... "Someone. Someone." -Don't take it per--
Sorry, yes. Fine, I'll tell her it's you. -Just-- -Mm-mm.
-No, she asked me who. It's Jim. -She's gonna ask-- There it is.
Lisa-Lisa, the interrogator. [sniffles]
"Holy fuckity-fuck, Jim-Jim?"
-She's Lisa-Lisa'ing you, man. -Yes, Jim-Jim.
[Amanda] Oh. Yes.
She wants to know how you look.
She wants to know when I'm coming back.
I kinda want to see your house.
You want to see the house?
It's been really great catching up with you.
But if the reason you're spending time with me is because
you feel sorry for me...
You don't have to do it. It's okay. Okay?
Sorry. There's boxes.
-Sorry. -It's okay.
There we go.
Yeah, I've still got a lot of stuff to pack up.
-That's a good one in particular. Yeah. -Yeah, I'll say.
-Yeah, pretty much how she left it, so... -Mm.
I've been thinking about drywalling where the paneling is.
Maybe taking out that wall, -so it opens into the kitchen. -Mm-hmm.
I don't know, there's also something kind of... cozy about it the way it is.
Thinking about it.
Uh, anyway, make yourself at home. I'm gonna go to the bathroom.
I'll see you in a sec.
Oh, my God.
This is a very serious collection -of romance novels. [chuckles] -Yeah.
This could not have been here... -when we were spending time... -There were some...
-when we were spending time... -There were some...
I think she really started collecting when I left...
-Yes. -...and I wasn't here to...
We would have had a field day with this.
-Yeah. Well... -[chuckles] I mean, let's face it. In your heyday, you were pretty...
-In my heyday? -You were pretty romantic.
I'm remembering when you read Wuthering Heights and made me read it.
I'm remembering when you read Wuthering Heights and made me read it. -And you sent me that... -[Amanda sighs]
I think it was four legal page letters that...
Jim, that's extreme. It wasn't... You called me Heathcliff. You called yourself Catherine.
You called me Heathcliff. You called yourself Catherine.
-"I am you, and you are me." -[shushes] Will you stop it?
-Yes, so... -That's completely humiliating.
By the way, don't pretend like you're all above this.
There is a very big difference,
I would just like to point out, between this lovely array of books and the great work of art and literature that is Wuthering Heights.
and the great work of art and literature that is Wuthering Heights.
I mean, they cannot be compared.
Oh, here's something for you. Right away.
Oh, here's something for you. Right away. "She knew that her heart and soul belonged to Justin."
-[both laugh] -What? What? Justin?
It's, like... [chuckles]
-There's no sexier name than Justin. -What? Justin.
"Oh, Justin. Do it to me, Justin."
-[Jim] Oh, come on. -Sorry.
No, there's more.
"But it wasn't until tonight that she realized
Justin also owned her body."
I'm sorry. There is no comparison between this and Wuthering Heights.
[Jim] First of all...
[Amanda] It's sacrilegious to compare...
[Jim] I don't want to think about my mother reading these.
[Amanda] Neither do I, I have to say.
I've been staring at these, figuring out how to get rid of them.
-Why? You just... -Well, I don't know.
It's weird, like, I had this weird...
I had a strange mortality moment where I looked at them,
and I was like there's... 800 books here,
and even if I, for some reason, wanted to read all of these books,
I wouldn't be able to finish all these books before I died.
That's a weird... thing. You know, like the math of that.
-It's a pretty morbid thought. -I mean, just a...
Not to be morbid, but it's just a thing. You know?
I don't know, it's all relative, I think.
I mean, my husband, you know...
Maybe he would make it through this section,
if he were lucky.
-[Amanda] I don't know. -Yeah.
Can I, um... Do you mind if I go outside? I have to make a phone call.
Yeah. Yeah, of course. Yeah.
-Thank you. -You know the way.
Yes, I do.
[Amanda] I know, I'm sorry, I meant to call you. Yeah.
The minute I got there, she sent me right out to get some food for her.
she sent me right out to get some food for her.
Yeah, no, she seems really... She seems really good.
You know, she's just hungry. [chuckles]
Uh, I think we're just gonna stay in.
Just, you know, watch a movie or, you know, and eat. [chuckles]
Yeah.
Will you-- Can you just say that again? I didn't hear you.
Yeah.
This is amazing. This is amazing. It's like a time capsule.
-[laughs] -Yeah. It's all here.
-You need the black light. -A black light.
It was 1993. You needed a black light.
-Yeah, you had to have a black light. -You want to watch some, uh, Friends?
-Seinfeld? -Seinfeld?
The other option is I could do a little, uh... Gin Blossoms.
-Yes. Would you? -Or... Maybe Toad the Wet Sprocket?
-I hate the sound of Toad the Wet-- -Fine. Blues Traveler.
I like Blues Traveler.
You literally have every shirt you wore in high school still.
My mom kept stuff. That's just...
[Amanda sighs] God. Yeah. I remember wearing this one.
This one.
-I think this one is mine. -[both chuckle]
-I always hated this one. -I looked good in that.
You did not look good in it. You looked like a weird lumberjack.
-You say that like it's a bad thing? -It is a very bad thing.
-Well, you know, I'm sorry. -[gasps]
-That's private property. -Oh, really?
-Have some respect, okay? -For what?
-For your privacy? -Yes. Exactly.
-You probably read these to me out loud. -It's called privacy.
-No, no, that's private. -[chuckles] Oh, my--
"The winds of change are fucking blowing tonight."
-[Jim] No, no, no! You don't need... -No, no, no! No. [chuckles]
-No, thank you. Nope. Nope. -"Amanda, Amanda!
Who knew her name was going to be Amanda.
-What a face! -Hey!
-What a spirit! -Enough!
My lips said, 'Hello, my friend,' but my heart said, 'Hello, my future.'
I don't even know myself anymore.
-Jim has been ripped in half. -Burn it!
I'm so happy to bleed, for there is Amanda."
Oh, my God.
-[Jim] You want Japan or New York? -New York.
Oh, my God. [chuckles]
I found a picture of you that is outrageous.
You don't deserve this, by the way. Digging through my stuff.
Listen, man, you don't have a lock on your shit.
-[chuckles] -It's bound to get broken into.
Man, I can't believe you still have all this stuff.
-[Jim] Yup. -Crazy.
-[Jim] Mom was a bit of a hoarder. -Yeah.
-[chuckles] -Do you dare? Are you brave enough?
The winds of fucking change are blowing tonight, man.
The winds of fucking change are blowing tonight, man. -[Jim] Fuck you. Fuck you. -[laughs]
This first classic performance is entitled, "Hanging Out," made in 1994.
[laughs] Oh, my God.
-I don't know what's happening. Good luck. -[chuckles]
-[Amanda] What's it gonna be? -[clears throat] Oh, boy.
[Lisa raps on recorder] ♪  Lisa-Lisa and the Cult Jam ♪ [Jim raps on recorder] ♪  She just don't understand ♪
-[Amanda] ♪  She jealous, she jealous -[Jim] Jealous! ♪
♪  That's right, fool! ♪
♪  And mama, and mama And mama had a son ♪
-[both] ♪ She just don't understand -[Amanda] No way ♪
[Jim] ♪  She jealous, she jealous She--  ♪
-Oh, come on! -No! No!
-You fucking taped over it. -This is what I was recording over.
We were running out of tapes. Wait. Hold on. -[shushes] -[Amanda on recorder] Welcome home.
[Jim on recorder] Thanks, sweetheart. It's so good to see you.
-[Amanda] How was work? -[both laughing] Ew. Ew.
[Jim] You know, Glen Donovan is canceling his account with us.
Twenty-three years doing business together.
Just like that. Can you believe?
-Oh, business. -Twenty-three years with Glen Donovan.
I'm sorry.
[Amanda] I've got a little something to cheer you up.
-[Jim] Oh, come here then. Get over here. -[Amanda] Not that.
[Jim] You are in a late night Cinemax movie.
[Amanda] Close your eyes.
-[Jim] Why? -[Amanda] Just do it.
-See, I'm the boss, even then. Yeah. -[Jim] You're the boss.
-What are you doing? -[Amanda shushes] Would you be patient?
-[Jim] I'm not patient. -[Amanda] Jim, come on!
Okay, open them.
-[Jim] Oh, my God. -[Amanda] Happy 40th anniversary, lover.
[Jim] Oh, my God. Look at this meal. Look what you did.
-[Amanda] Do you like it? -[Jim] Oh. Sweetheart, it's beautiful.
[Jim] I'm so thankful. I didn't get you anything.
-I'm sorry. I forgot. -[Amanda] It's okay. You've been busy.
-Just sit down, let's eat. -[Jim] It's delicious. Oh, my God. Mmm.
Oh, my God. [Amanda] Is it good? I made your favorite.
-[Jim] You are my favorite. -[Amanda] I'd better be your favorite.
[Jim] So, did you talk to Jessica yet today? [Amanda] I did.
[Jim] And? [Amanda] And... she got it!
-[Jim] Yes! Yes! -[Amanda chuckles]
[Jim] Oh, I knew she would. But I mean, two years in,
she's already getting promoted.
-[Amanda] But are you surprised? -[Jim] No. That's our Jessica.
[Amanda] Ever since she was three years old, and she started telling me what to wear,
-I think we knew not to worry about her. -[Jim] I know.
Oh, now I know why poor Jason was a little...
-[Amanda] Yeah. -odd on the phone today.
[Amanda] I know. I think it's so hard when your big sister is so successful.
[Jim] Yeah, must be. But he's so wonderful in his own way.
-[Amanda] So wonderful. -[Jim] He's gonna find it. I know he will.
-[Amanda] And he's got your eyes. -[Jim] He's got your heart.
[Amanda] We've got a great couple of kids. [Jim] Well, they got a great mom.
Best mom in the whole world.
-[Amanda] Best dad in the whole world. -[Jim] Oh, come on!
It's kind of funny, like...
having the house to ourselves again, isn't it?
All those years with the four of us running around,
-bumping into each other and... -[chuckles] Just back down to the two of us.
[Amanda] Yeah.
-[Amanda] But it's nice. -[Jim] It is nice.
Hey, I'm really sorry...
-I forgot to get an anniversary present. -[Amanda] It's okay.
[Jim] I feel really bad. I'm going to go to the bathroom real quick.
Jim! What are you doing?
[Jim] Oh, just nothing. Here. Open it. Open it.
[chuckling] Stupid.
[Amanda] You got us tickets to see Annie Lennox? [Jim] Yes, I did. Happy anniversary. Do you like dancing?
[Jim] Yes, I did. Happy anniversary. Do you like dancing? [Amanda] You, son of a bitch! You tricked me!
[Jim] Hey, I still got a few tricks left up my old sleeve here.
Come here.
-[Jim] I love you, Amanda Henderson. -[Amanda] I love you more.
-[Jim] You were so good! -[both laugh on recorder]
[Amanda] How can I believe you?
-[Jim] The surprise of the tickets. -[Amanda] You seemed like an old man.
[Jim] I actually believed that you could really cook.
-[Amanda] Kiss me. -[Jim] Hey.
-[Jim] Here's to 80 more. -[Amanda] Yeah, 120 more.
-[Jim] Yeah, we could do that, right? -[Amanda] Yeah.
-We weren't very cool. [laughs] -No, we were deeply uncool.
-That was so... Oh... -That was really...
[Jim] Yeah.
I wonder where that plane is going.
-It's not coming here. -[both laugh]
He's like, "That town down there...
-"Sucks." -sucks."
Although, you know what, the fact that it's dark,
-you can't quite see the shithole-ness. -[chuckles] That is right.
-[Jim] And actually, right now... -It does look pretty.
-It's kind of nice, right? -Yeah.
Not so bad.
What's on your mind, eh?
Is it that obvious?
That was really...
a little unnerving...
back there, listening to all that stuff.
-I mean... I seemed quite, um, fun. -[both laugh]
-First of all. -Your rapping career didn't turn out...
the way you hoped it would, I think. I understand.
It's almost like I don't know who that person was on the tape.
I remember her really well.
-She was really fun, wasn't she? -Yeah, she was great.
-Yeah. -And I...
Don't get me wrong. It's not that my...
life isn't that. It's... I just...
-Amanda? -What?
I understand.
-You don't have to explain it to me. -[sighs]
Would you like to have some fun tonight?
Like just some...
stupid ass fun tonight?
Well, now I'm scared. What are you going to do?
-Do you trust me? -[laughs] I don't know.
-It's been a long time. I don't know. -It's a good question.
-Yeah, it has been a long time. -I really don't know. [laughs]
-Got to say fuck the ice cream, though. -Mm.
Fuck the ice cream!
Is that your new rap?
[both] Fuck the ice cream.
-Fuck. Fucka-fucka-fucka... -Fuck the... Fucka-fucka-fucka...
[both] Fuck the ice cream.
-[door opens] -[Jim] Honey, I'm home! Hi, sweetheart.
You have to close your eyes. Please just stay right up there.
Do not come down here, and close your eyes.
-[Jim] Why do I have to close my eyes? -Because...
-What's going on? -Because it's a surprise.
-Please, sweetheart. -Oh, a surprise. Okay.
-Did you have a good day, Mr. Henderson? -Well, there's a lot to talk about.
How was your day, Mrs. Henderson?
I have something very exciting to tell you as well. [Jim] Wow! That sounds like we should maybe have dinner
[Jim] Wow! That sounds like we should maybe have dinner and talk about our days.
-Do me a favor and please be patient. -Okay, I'm being patient.
-I'm closing my eyes. -Okay, keep them closed.
[Jim] You know I'll do anything for you, Mrs. Henderson.
I'm counting on it. Okay.
[Jim] Something smells delicious.
-Hello. -Hello, Mrs. Henderson.
Hello, Mr. Henderson.
-Keep your eyes closed. -Okay.
-Come with me. -Yes.
-Hold on to the railing, please. -Okay.
Okay.
It's very exciting.
-I can't wait to hear... -I love surprises.
-...all about your day at work. -Okay. Okay.
On the count of three, I want you to open your eyes.
Okay.
Okay, go for it.
-One, two... -Mm.
-Three. [chuckles] -Oh, my God!
[Jim] Look at this meal! It's gorgeous!
You made all this? You cooked all this?
Have you been taking cooking classes on the sly?
-Maybe, Mr. Henderson. -Oh, my gosh.
-Mrs. Henderson, this meal is beautiful. -[chuckles] It's elegant.
-Very French, Mr. Henderson. -But I have a question...
-What's the special occasion? -I can't believe you forgot.
-What? -Mr. Henderson...
Cinemax.
-Happy 20th anniversary, lover. -[both chuckle]
Of course I didn't forget. I was just playing.
Happy anniversary, sweetheart.
-[chuckles] -I'm... I'm going here.
-Oh, let's eat. -Oh, let's eat.
-[Jim] These eggs are really something. -Really?
And the noodles, are they Asian?
-[chuckles] -[Jim] They're really fantastic.
Yes. That I slaved over for a very long time.
-Hard to make. -[Jim] No, I...
-Very, very hard to make. -You can really taste it in there.
-It tastes-- -How was your day, sweetheart?
Well... Glen Donovan was at it again, honey.
Oh, Glen Donovan, he's always giving you a hard time.
I don't know if I can take another day.
I mean, it's good stable income until your career takes off, of course, but...
Well, it's funny that you should mention that
because I got a very exciting phone call today.
You did? What was your phone call?
-I got a call today... -Mm-hmm.
saying I got the opening slot.
Opening... You got the opening slot?
I am going to open for...
-Oh, no. -Oh, yes. Oh, very seriously.
Are you going to be the first female white rapper to open for Public Enemy?
-Booyah! -[Jim] I knew it! -[laughs] -I knew you could do it, honey!
-Mrs. Henderson, they loved your demo. -They loved my demo.
-They thought it was so fresh. [laughs] -I'm so impressed. Come here.
-Cheers to you, Mrs. Henderson. -[clink]
-Thank you. -I can't believe it. Oh, no!
But you'll be on tour and I'll miss you. I'll be so sad.
-What do we do? -Well...
What do you think about saying, um... "Fuck you" to Glen Donovan?
I do it inside of my head every day, darling.
-I'd love to out loud. -[coughs]
-Tell me what you have. Tell me. -Honey...
-Okay, but you promise not to laugh? -I won't laugh.
I'd never laugh at you, honey.
I think it could be really, really romantic...
and also an opportunity to kind of like...
find ourselves and be adventurous. We rent an RV.
-Can I drive? -You can drive.
-Can we get matching hats? -We can get matching hats. [chuckles]
Laminated maps.
We can go from town to town, exploring things and sleeping outside under...
-Rapping by night. -the stars.
-Rapping by night. -Adventuring during the day.
-Yes. -We're going to go look for hot springs.
Hot springs and zip lining, and weird food and diarrhea...
We can go all over the country! We'll see all our people!
All our friends, and people that used to live here and moved away and...
Yes!
Jessica and Jason will come and visit us. It will be so magical.
Don't you think?
-[Jim] Honey? -What?
If you don't want to do it, we don't have to do it.
It's just, I think it could be really romantic.
Now, you listen to me, you son of a bitch.
This is the greatest thing that's ever happened to us.
-Honey. -What?
-I got egg in your beard. -Did you get some eggs all over my beard?
It's okay. It's okay. You know why?
-[laughs] Honey, that was really funny. -[chuckles]
But in all seriousness, hon... [chuckles]
-[laughs] -You are a brilliant planner.
-You're a wonderful cook. -[gasps] Sweetheart.
You're the greatest rap artist I've ever known.
It's the only true thing you just said.
And I think it's time for me to unveil my anniversary surprise.
You didn't.
-I did. -You didn't.
-[Amanda laughs] -I did.
[whispers] You didn't.
[softly] I did.
Watch the... Watch the one eyebrow raise. Watch this happen.
You're not doing it, honey. [laughs]
-There it is. Nailed it? -Not at all.
-There's two. -You have to do this. No, no.
-[laughs] Did I do it? -Well, now it's...
[both] Now, it's turning into something else.
I'm really sorry I got egg on you, honey.
It's a very sweet thing after all these years
you could still make me laugh like that.
-Twenty years. -Twenty years.
Let me give you your surprise. Jim... [whispers] did you really do something?
-I did. -[chuckles]
Jim.
Jim, Jim, Jim. [laughs]
[Amanda whispers] Jim. What are you doing?
-You leaving room for Jesus? [laughs] -You know it. Catholic school forever.
It's so good.
-[whispers] Hi. -Hi.
-Mrs. Henderson. -Hello, Mr. Henderson.
It's a very good present.
I'm okay.
-You crying? -I'm all right. I got this.
-It's like our prom all over again. -I know.
It's really a long song. I forgot how long this is. [laughs]
Surprised we had attention spans that would last long enough.
-I know. It is good. -But the song's so damn good.
Yeah, there it is.
-That was a very, very nice touch. -It was good. It was good.
What's next?
-I'm scared. -Heads up. -[screams] -Oh!
Mm. Backwards!
-This is my Molly Ringwald. -I like that.
-[Amanda screams] -Oh, God.
-[Jim yelps] -Oh!
[Amanda] Shit, yeah.
[Jim] Jump, jump, jump!
[Amanda] Yeah, yeah. Okay, okay.
-Enough with the moaning. -God, I forgot how good it feels.
-Enough with it. Take it easy. -[moans] Oh, my God.
You know, I was kidding when I was on the rocks. But, seriously...
I don't want to punch anybody. As long as you rub my head, I'm good.
No, that means it's ending. Don't do that. Don't do that.
-[Jim] I don't want it to be over. No! -Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
-That's enough for you. I think it is. -No, it's not.
-Keep going. -No, I'm not gonna keep going, Jim.
I have done this for you like a million times.
You've never done it for me once. Not once.
-All right. Stretch it out. -Are you kidding me?
Are you kidding? Could we please get on with the rub?
I've waited a very long time for this.
You can't rush greatness, okay? Take it easy. All right?
If you want to experience the ancient art of phrenology,
you really need to wait and get it done right.
-Come again? -Okay, well, if you had seen Men at Work,
the classic Charlie Sheen, Emilio Estevez film from 1990,
you would know, it's when you...
you know, feel and interpret someone's skull features,
and see what's going on in there.
See, I get up in here and I say...
See that knot right there? That says you're a terrible cook.
-Okay? You're shitty. -[chuckles] Shut up.
This... Um...
And I'm getting this straight from the skull features,
you are a lover of animals.
Yeah, you knew that already because I told you that I run a dog rescue.
Tell me about your doggies.
I haven't really heard you talk about it much.
-It was Chris's idea actually. -What's that?
That I open the rescue.
-Yeah. -That's cool.
-Yeah. -I love the idea of you
kind of hanging out with little Freddy-like greyhounds
and taking care of them. I miss Freddy.
We don't really... We don't do the greyhound thing.
What do you mean? You were like the greyhound queen.
[Amanda] Yeah, they're just, you know, they're not practical.
Chris pointed out and he's right that, you know...
They have a lot of special needs. They take a lot of work.
We have a small organization, and, you know, it's manageable.
I guess I just...
You love greyhounds. I don't... I mean...
Yes, I do.
I always think of them as people wearing a fur coat.
I don't know. I just always have felt understood by them.
That makes sense.
I don't know. They want to be around people, but...
I don't know, feel what they feel. I can't explain it. It's...
I can tell that they know that being out in the world is hard.
Yeah.
And they feel it and they just want to be, like, nuzzled up in...
They want to make you feel better.
They have that instinct of wanting to be close.
And I don't know. I just...
And you can take a greyhound, even with all of the things
that come with owning them or caring for them, or rehabilitating them.
You take the oldest, neediest, most anxious,
broken down greyhound, and if you take that dog to the beach,
and you take off his collar,
he will just fucking run.
-Like he was still young. -Yeah.
Just tear down that beach.
And there's like sand flying and tongue is hanging out his mouth,
and he's just so...
I don't know, it's so beautiful.
I think you should think about working with greyhounds.
Yeah.
-[Jim] A decent amount of stars tonight. -[Amanda] Hmm.
-Can I tell you something? -[Jim] Anything.
I've...
I've been taking anti-depressants...
for awhile. [chuckles]
And...
I haven't told anyone, you know. Not even Chris.
And I don't know why...
I feel so embarrassed about taking them.
It's probably because there's nothing, you know,
there's nothing wrong with my life.
I should be happy.
But there's this...
sadness.
And I don't know where it comes from.
I can understand that.
The drugs, they're... [chuckles] they're weird.
-I mean, I've... -[Jim] Yeah.
I literally haven't cried in five years.
Yeah, I don't have that particular problem myself. [laughs]
-Can I ask you something? -Anything.
Why don't you talk to Chris about it?
I...
I don't know.
I think there was a time when I would have.
But things...
Things are just kind of changing. They're just... changing now.
How so?
Bryce is off to college and Theo is right behind him and...
Chris is... Chris is almost 64 now.
What?
[stammers] I mean, I knew he was older. I didn't realize he was that much older.
-Yeah, well, you know... -It's...
-It's not nothing. -Yeah.
-I... -But...
I have loved...
I have loved being a mom to those kids, you know?
I just, I...
I do not know what it's going to be like when they're gone.
And sometimes I look at Chris, and I think...
"Oh, my God.
Am I going to be taking care -of an elderly person soon?" -[chuckles]
I knew it. You know, I knew it going in, but somehow...
being faced with just the two of us, alone in a house and...
-I don't know. -It's real now.
-Yeah. -Yeah. I get it.
-Hey. -Hey, what?
I want to say thank you.
Why do you--? What for?
For tonight.
For remembering my pink and purple jellybeans.
You know.
For never making me feel wrong about who I am.
What?
-I just... -You're embarrassed on my behalf?
-[laughs] -No, no, I just had a thought and it's...
-What? You have to tell me. -Nothing. No, it was...
I just told you something that I've never told anyone,
-and I think that you should just... -[sighs] I was thinking about...
our first time... in the back of this truck at the lake.
-All 38 seconds of it? [laughs] -Oh, shut up.
I was excited. I was 16, okay?
I've developed some serious skills since then.
-I'll have you know. -Oh, yeah.
In fact, I've been servicing the entire Tucson, Arizona area with...
-What are you, a plumber? -[laughs]
It's funny though, 'cause...
It's never really been like it was with us, for me.
I mean, you know, that's a nostalgia thing.
-You know, that's how it's... Yeah. -Yeah. Yeah.
It's the same for me.
-Really? -Yeah.
-There's something about those dumb kids. -[laughs]
-Yeah. -They knew something.
Yeah.
-Magic. -Magic, that's right.
-Jim? -Yeah.
Will you kiss me?
I know what I'm asking.
I love you.
I have to go, Jim.
-Jim, please. -Amanda...
-Hey, listen. I don't want you to go! -Please, please!
-Will you just please give me a minute. -Okay, okay, okay. Listen.
It's confusing, I get it. Okay? I just want... We can talk about it.
I don't want to talk about it! I don't want to talk about it.
I shouldn't have let this game go on for so long.
-This is not a game to me, though. -Do you understand that I am married?
-I understand. -You know what that means?
-I belong to someone else! -I understand. I'm just trying--
Will you please just give me a little bit of room.
[Amanda] Where the fuck is my coat?
Where did you get this?
It was in your closet.
And you just took it?
Yeah.
-Why? -It's addressed to me, first of all.
And second of all, I wanted to read it.
Well, if this is just a game to you, Amanda,
then why do you need to read a letter that I wrote to you 22 years ago?
What is this--? What could this possibly mean to you?
You know, I don't know. I just wanted to read it.
Well, this is my letter.
-I know that and I'm sorry. -No! I don't think you understand that.
I think you need to understand something, that this is my letter.
Okay? This belongs to me.
And you can't come into my house, and just take this,
and do whatever you want with it without asking me, because it's mine too.
You understand me?
-What is this--? -That was my baby, too. Okay?
It was ours!
-What--? -It was ours.
You just fucking...
Why did you...?
Fucking...
-Why did you do that? -Jim.
Why did you do that?
-[stammers] You... -I was a scared kid!
I didn't know how to handle it!
You had to give me a minute! You fucking went away and you...
You were the one who told me that we were too young--
I was scared! Why'd you fucking do it?
-Oh God... -It was our life!
[Jim breathing heavily] Fuck!
[sobs] We were gonna be so happy.
We lost it. We lost everything.
Jim.
Fuck.
-[Amanda] Breathe. Breathe. -[exhales]
Okay. Okay.
Take a deep breath, please.
-[Jim, softly] I'm sorry. -I'm sorry too.
-I'm really sorry. -I'm really sorry, too.
[Amanda] Okay.
I need you to understand something.
I didn't just irrationally make the decision to do what I did.
And I know, I see now that it was incredibly hard on you.
But I was the one who had to go in there and actually do it.
Actually go through with it, you know?
[stammers] And I do get that I didn't handle it well. I didn't...
I just... I tortured myself
going over the options alone, in my bedroom.
Going over and over what I should do.
And then you sent me that stupid note.
Making all those... those weird, sarcastic jokes and...
And then you sent me that stupid "Get Well Soon" balloon.
A balloon, Jim.
I don't know, there was just something about it
where it became so clear to me that, that you were too young to handle it.
We were too young to handle it.
And I knew that I was gonna have to go through it alone
and I knew I couldn't... do it alone.
And, you know...
Do I have regrets? Yes. Yes.
But, I...
What can we do?
Here.
[Jim] Please.
Will you just read it?
"Amanda,
I know we can get through this together.
You are my world.
I will never stop loving you."
[sobs] It was the first version that I wrote to you.
[sobs] Why didn't you send this to me?
I was scared. I didn't...
I was just stupid. I'm sorry.
-[woman] Sorry for the wait. -Hey, don't even worry about it.
Let's discuss this loan application.
Well, Cathy... [chuckles]
-Can I call you Cathy? -Uh, sure.
-Great. Where are you from, Cathy? -Van Nuys.
Oh, no. I meant your heritage. Where are your people from?
-Oh, Greek. -Oh.
Yeah, but my family is fifth generation American.
Great. Well, then you'll totally understand where I'm coming from.
Cathy, my name is Ray Moody.
I was born and raised in Glendale, California,
and I am an entrepreneur.
I believe in the spirit of innovation.
This country was built on ideas that are progressive and one-of-a-kind.
-Wouldn't you agree? -I suppose.
Yeah. Great, Cathy.
Well, I'll tell you, Cathy,
I can't wait for you to hear what I have in store for us.
Cathy, I run a business based on one idea:
helping people.
Isn't helping people the cornerstone of any worthwhile endeavor?
Isn't that what makes America great?
Isn't it?
Through years of research and practice,
I've developed a system of nuance, psychotherapeutic techniques
guaranteed to give clients just the helping hand they need.
[man] What the-- What are you doing?
What the heck is happening? Oh, my God! Help me!
Hi, Stuart.
Give it to me straight.
What'd you have for lunch today?
-A garden salad. -Don't lie.
-You went to Baxby's again, didn't you? -No, sir. No.
You'd rather have a jumbo bacon double cheeseburger
from Baxby's any day of the week.
Isn't that right, Stu? Isn't that why you're so goddamn fat?
No. No, sir. I had a garden salad.
Garden salad?
Stu... I found the receipt in your coat pocket.
You had curly fries, too.
Don't look so down.
As a matter of fact, I stopped at Baxby's drive thru on our way over here.
There's only one problem.
I bought a few too many of these bad boys by mistake.
-You think you can help me out, Stu? -No, I'm not hungry. No. I'm not.
-Yeah, you are. Open up. -No, no!
-Only 12 more to go. -No, I can't.
I can't. I can't--
-Has it been eight hours? -To the minute.
Congrats, Stuart. I doubt you'll be visiting Baxby's again anytime soon.
Yeah, I don't think so.
This got a little shit on it in the scuffle. I'm sorry.
If you need a good dry cleaners, I know a guy.
No, no. Thank you, though. I have to tell you, you, uh... [chuckles]
You really scared me back there at the bar.
-Yeah? -Yeah.
Thanks. I appreciate that.
Okay. What is the name again?
You can make it out to Kidnap Solutions LLC.
People pay you to kidnap them?
For the simulated experience of a high-stakes abduction, yes.
I'm not sure I understand.
Well, you might think of it as a kind of alternative therapy.
My clients use the service for any number of curative reasons.
Curative?
Yeah. I mean, sure, some people do it just for kicks,
but we have any number of people combating addictions--
drugs, alcohol, fatty foods.
To that end, we deploy a number of association tactics
descended from Pavlov.
-He's the Russian-- -Are you a licensed psychologist?
No. How is that relevant?
Eighteen months ago, your company was based out of Atlantic City.
That's correct.
And what prompted you to relocate?
The economy. My business model was based on tourism.
Well, did the lawsuit... have anything to do with your relocation?
Absolutely not.
Well, in the interest of full disclosure--
-Give me a break. -Pardon me?
I'm sorry, but before every encounter,
I consult with my clients to set very specific boundaries
about what's going to work and what isn't.
I leave a paper trail, I fax documents--
No, but you... You didn't in Atlantic City.
No.
No. You know what? [taps desk] No, thanks.
This is an ambush, lady.
And based on this bank's reputation,
I expected a level of professionalism today.
And those expectations were not met.
Have an awesome day, Cathy.
I'm sorry, do you guys validate parking?
Hey, it's your sister. Where are you?
The party started an hour ago and I told the kids you were coming
and it would be very uncool if you didn't show up.
And can you... Can you please not wear the wig?
Just leave it at home.
I just... I don't want to have to explain it to people.
It's fucking creepy.
Thank you. See you soon. Bye.
-Thanks a lot, Tom. -Yeah, you bet.
I really appreciate it. I'll pay you back as soon as I can. You have my word.
-Don't worry about it. Happy to do it. -I was gonna tell you,
I've been talking with some big money guys back east.
They really believe in the concept.
Talking about franchise potential, so I really feel...
Kids are getting big.
They do that when you don't see 'em for a while.
Thanks for having me over.
Glad you could make it this time.
[man on TV] Where did you conceal the rest of the money, Mr. Jules?
They're in the bank vault, far beyond your reach.
Perhaps you underestimate my ability in obtaining the things that I want.
You'll be very wise if you don't cry out, mademoiselle.
Even a criminal dislikes to use violence with anybody so lovely.
You tempt me, mademoiselle, to steal something more.
[man] Calling all thrill-seekers and adrenaline junkies.
Design your wildest kidnap fantasy today.
Phone us for a free consultation. That's 1-800--
Hello?
-[woman] Is this Ray? -Speaking.
Is this a bad time?
No, no. Not at all.
I'm calling about my free consultation.
Sure. What did you have in mind, uh...
-Anna. -Anna.
I have a fantasy.
I want to disappear.
-Okay. That can be arranged. -Really?
I'm so glad.
Yeah, we have a whole...
A host of different scenarios that we can, uh... recommend.
Surprise me.
Okay.
Your website lists a standard rate for an eight-hour simulation.
Is that negotiable?
-Oh, well-- -Sorry, let me be more clear.
I'd like to go for the whole weekend.
I'm prepared to pay extra for the longer simulation.
You are?
How's 5,000 even?
-Half upfront... - [clattering] the other half after we've finished.
-Ray? -Yes, I'm still here. That's, uh... that's fine.
I was going to mention there's one more thing that I'd like to request.
-Okay. -I'm kind of embarrassed to ask.
Oh, no, I've been doing this a long time.
Trust me. There's no request I haven't heard.
Slapping.
What's that?
During the simulation, I'd like for you to... slap me.
-You've been on our site? -Yes.
It's just that, uh... We have those terms up there.
I'm sure you read we're not allowed to hit our clients.
Anna?
I was hoping that you would make an exception.
I'm afraid that's just not possible at this time.
I see.
-But listen if you want to... -Fuck.
What's wrong?
Nothing. Thanks for your time. -[hangs up] -No! No, no.
-St. Blair. -Anna?
Yes. Please don't call me anymore.
No, no. Hold on. Hold on.
Is this legit?
What is?
You weren't yanking my chain about the 5,000?
You can look me up.
I'm an account executive
at Carnahan Cutler Monroe, West Coast Division.
-I should go. -Wait, wait, wait.
Ray, is our conversation finished or isn't it?
No.
Then you'll keep an open mind?
-I will. -I'm so glad.
[Anna] You sound surprised.
Well, it's a lot of money.
Yes, but you understand it comes with strings attached.
No, of course.
I don't scare easily. It has to feel real.
That's what we're all about.
[Ray] Case file 402. Subject: Anna St. Blair.
Position: senior business consultant,
Carnahan Cutler Monroe, Los Angeles branch.
Subject has requested a surprise scenario.
I've dusted off one of my classic simulations.
The Schwentke file.
You're gonna get us that file, Miss St. Blair, one way or another.
It's a tale of corporate espionage where I play the brute enforcer,
she's the damsel in distress.
And Schwentke, well,
that's for me to know and her to find out.
All the pieces are in place.
She won't know when it's coming.
Or where.
Or how.
You have one new message.
[Anna] I saw you in the elevator this afternoon.
You didn't say anything.
Were you outside my house, too?
You really should be more careful next time, Ray.
-[shrieks] -Stop.
Eyes on the road, Anna. Stay cool.
-How do you know my name? -Light's green.
Are you... are you wearing a wig?
You have a green light. Let's go, let's go.
-Would you like my car? -No.
Okay. No.
What do you want? I'm sure we can work something out.
Just keep your hands at ten and two, just like in Driver's Ed.
-What's in there? -Shut up.
-What's in your hand-- -Shut up.
Okay. Hold still.
I don't think I can drive with these things on my...
Sure you can.
You know, I'm supposed to be speaking at a very important conference tonight
and if I'm not there, people are gonna ask...
People are gonna ask questions about where I am.
Shut up and drive.
Okay. Hold tight a sec. I'll be right back.
[muffled] Help me!
Help!
-Help! -[knocking]
-Are you through? -[screams weakly]
There's nobody around. Nobody can hear you.
-[whimpers] -I'm gonna cut you free. Don't make any sudden movements, okay?
All right, let's go. Come on.
Hop in.
Oh, no, no. I can't go in there. I'm a claustrophobe.
-Seriously? -No, yeah, I'll go into shock, so...
Turn around.
-Turn around. -Listen, this isn't some ploy.
I've done absolutely everything that you've asked me to do up until right now.
-Get in. -Okay, okay, okay.
-Watch your head. -Okay, okay.
Get your fucking leg down. I will fucking slam this on you.
I'm not kidding. I am not fucking around.
-Oh, shit! -[screams]
-Why are you doing this? -Shut up.
[scoffs] You're Anna St. Blair?
-That was a question. -You told me to shut up!
Okay. Are you Anna St. Blair or aren't you?
Yes.
-You are Anna St. Blair? -Yes.
You work at Carnahan Cutler Monroe, the L.A. branch?
What is this about?
My employer has taken an interest in a certain client of yours,
a man by the name of Schwentke.
Schwentke?
Are you sure you're pronouncing that correctly?
Listen, Anna,
this can either go very smoothly for you or very difficultly.
What?
-The Schwentke file, where is it? -Who is Schwentke?
[groans] Okay.
CCM doesn't represent anybody by that name.
If I could help you with this, don't you think I would have already?
Don't fuck with me, Anna!
You're gonna get us that file, Miss St. Blair, one way or another.
I don't know what you're talking about.
You can't just keep me here like this.
People are gonna be looking for me.
Which?
Oh, come on. No.
Lady, I don't ask twice.
That one.
Well, I hope you're more cooperative tomorrow, for your own sake.
Hey, Tom, it's Ray. I left a package at your place last night.
Make sure you get to it before Natalie does.
My name's not on it or anything but it's in your mail.
You know, for the first time in a long time,
I really feel like I'm heading down the right path, like...
I don't know, everything's the way it should be.
All right. Later, man.
You hungry?
-I'm starving. -Well, you're in luck, then.
I got a whole mess of chicken fingers in here. Two orders' worth.
Ketchup?
Smells pretty good, doesn't it?
Okay, here it comes.
Before we dig into our breakfast here,
I'm gonna need some answers.
I already told you.
CCM doesn't have any clients named Schwentke.
Where's the file?
-[sobs] I don't know. -Where's the fucking file, Anna?
Please don't yell at me.
One way or another, I'm gonna get what I need.
These are very powerful people we're talking about here.
This shit goes higher up the totem pole than you could ever imagine.
You won't leave here alive unless I have that file in my hands!
There must be some mistake. There must be some sort of misinformation.
I mean, you're very good at your job, but...
I have a family.
And, um...
I have a dog.
He's a rescue dog. He's such a good...
He's such a good dog.
I have plants.
I have plants, too.
But I'm not who you think I am...
and I don't have what it is you need from me.
So please...
Please.
Please let me go home.
I have to go make a call.
She's good. She's good. She's good.
She's a fucking pro, I'll give her that.
But you got this.
You got this.
You got this.
Nice.
Listen, I know you're scared, but I'm just the middleman here.
I don't want anyone to have to suffer, so I'm gonna be straight with you.
In my line of work, I've seen lots of things.
Terrible things.
These guys do not fuck around.
But I know that if you can just work with me here,
give me the materials that I need
so that I can be able to say that I did my job,
we'll both make it out of this unscathed.
You have my word.
What?
[snorts] I'm sorry.
Are you kidding me with this shit?
You hold me at gunpoint and you tie me up in your...
You tie me up in your basement,
and then you invent some bullshit excuse to try to connect.
Well, it's not bullshit.
And expect me to treat you like you're...
Like you are my knight in shining armor.
You don't even know what you're talking about, okay?
You're treading very dangerous waters here.
Oh, I remember you. You were that guy in the elevator.
You were the guy that was staring at my ass.
You don't--
My employers...
You don't even--
You're in some very serious shit here, Anna.
You have seriously underestimated the amount of shit you're in.
You're gonna get me that fucking file, Anna!
Stop yelling in my face, you fucking pervert!
Oh, you spineless pussy. You can't even--
How was that?
You hit like a girl.
You and I are gonna talk Schwentke,
who I know is your fucking client, and I don't care how long it takes.
You're gonna give me exactly what I need.
And I don't care if your fucking plants fucking shrivel up and die!
They could die for all I care!
And don't think that I don't know that you don't have a rescue dog.
Yeah, that's right, Anna.
I've been to your house, and contrary to what you might think
I happen to be exceptionally good at my job.
So you just better make goddamn sure
that that job doesn't involve me cutting you into little fucking pieces
and feeding you to that fake ass fucking dog!
You can have the file!
-What did you say? -I'm hungry. I'm tired.
These cords are cutting off my circulation.
And, you know, I probably need to pee again.
If you want Schwentke that bad you can have him.
I'm really tired of this shit.
Really?
Yes.
You really know him?
Schwentke?
Yeah, yeah. He pays me 500 bucks an hour.
Come on, let's go.
-Where? -My office.
No, no, that's not gonna work.
Well, I can call my assistant and have her fax it over.
No, no. No calls, no faxes.
Okay, so what do you suggest? Telekinesis, maybe?
Is there some kind of online corporate database that...?
-No. What? -I don't know. What the heck--
Just let me call my assistant.
There better not be any funny business. Mm-mm.
Okay, I have to get the okay from my employers. I'll be right back.
Okay.
Shit.
Hey, buddy, it's Tom. Glad to hear you're in high spirits again.
I'm actually holed up in Vegas all week in a conference,
-so I wasn't able to get your package. -[creaking]
But don't worry about that.
I'm sure Natalie has it waiting for me when I get home.
You scared the shit out of me. You can't just barge in here like that.
What the hell is this?
I don't know. What is it?
It's an unmarked envelope full of cash that I found in my mailbox this morning.
How do you know that I put it there?
Are you borrowing money from Tom again?
Is that why you came to the birthday party?
No.
Did you sell the furniture?
-This place looks like shit. -[thudding below, screams]
Natalie, now's not a great time.
-What are you doing? -Nothing.
Do you have a friend here?
Oh, God. You have one of them here.
You have one of them here! At Mom's house?
Wait a minute. Wait a minute! Don't go down there!
Oh, well, this is just great.
[screams] Help me!
I hope you're having a pleasant experience.
I'm gonna go.
Ray, are you fucking kidding me?
I can't believe you. We grew up in this house!
Will you lower your voice?
-Who is she? -A new client. A good one.
And she's paying big money for an authentic simulated experience,
which you just compromised by engaging with her.
What?
You just introduced yourself into the equation.
Now I have to come up with a whole backstory for you.
Maybe...
Maybe you're my employer.
Wait, did I specify a gender? Fuck!
Can you hear yourself right now? You sound like a lunatic.
It's my job. I'm good at it.
Think about what Mom would say if she could see you right now.
Can you just stop for a second and think about what she'd say?
I gotta go. My kids are waiting in the car.
Well, you can bring 'em inside. I'd like to say hi to them.
And then should we bring 'em downstairs
and introduce them to the nice lady in the basement?
Well, you can't just leave 'em out in the car. That's irresponsible.
I'm irresponsible?
You need to grow the fuck up, and get a real job.
You know, the next time I bring my kids to see you,
I would prefer you not be behind eight inches of glass.
And water your fucking plant! That looks terrible!
[man on TV] Authorities are still searching today for a Hollywood Hills woman
feared missing since early yesterday evening.
Colleagues say they grew concerned after she failed to appear
at a corporate gala where she was due to deliver the keynote speech.
No.
She was last seen leaving her office in a black S550 Mercedes.
For any tips, you can call... -[clattering below]
Anna, we need to talk.
There's been some kind of misunderstanding. The police think--
-[grunts] -Oh, shit! Did you just stab me?
What's wrong with you?
Whoa. Okay, I'm calling this off.
This is getting too real. You can keep your 5,000, whatever.
Oh, motherfuck.
[screams] Help! Someone--!
Are you insane? The police are outside.
We're not in pretend land anymore.
-Shh. Look at me. Look at me. -Help me!
Yeah, just a second!
I'll be right there!
-Are you Raymond Moody? -Yeah, speaking.
What took you so long to get to the door today, Raymond?
Uh, you caught me in the can. [chuckles]
How can I help you guys?
We're here about a lady who went missing last night.
Missing?
Are you familiar with a woman named Anna St. Blair?
No. No, I don't think so.
You drive a white van?
Used to be white. It's more like rust colored now, actually.
-It has Jersey plates? -Yeah, actually it does.
-Is the car in your garage? -No, it's in the shop.
I gotta say, I'm getting a little confused here.
It was a neighbor that saw your car
parked in front of her house last three nights running.
-I'm sorry, whose neighbor? -Miss St. Blair.
-She's the one that's missing? -Yeah.
-Miss St. Blair. -Not the neighbor.
Right. Isn't it a little early to open a missing persons investigation?
I watch a lot of cop shows. [laughs]
Like I said, it's in the shop and it's been in the shop all week.
You know the name of the shop?
I don't know the name of it but it's on Manchester, near the airport.
A guy I know is a mechanic there.
What's your friend's name?
-Hayward. -Hayward have a first name?
Just Hayward is all I know.
You don't think he could have something to do with this, do you?
You know, he did say...
Yeah, he mentioned that he was on parole. Oh, man, Hayward.
You don't happen to have his number handy, do you?
No, I'm afraid not. I just kinda drop it off when it needs fixing.
But he's usually there if you zip by.
So should I just give you a call if I hear from Hayward?
Yeah. If we need to get a hold of you this week.
Yeah, we know where you live.
Right.
Mr. Moody...
have a good weekend.
Oh, shit.
Oh, shit.
All right.
I'm just gonna need the truth from you here.
Please tell me that that shit you pulled back there was all part of the act.
That you're still acting.
If that's the case, and I know that's the case,
then we can just end this thing right here and go our separate ways.
You know what this is, right? You called me on the phone, you...
You asked for this. You paid for this.
You didn't?
You have no idea what I'm talking about. You're--
Hold on.
Please let me go. I don't know what you're talking about. I don't know what it is...
I think that you have the wrong person.
You didn't call me on the phone?
You didn't deposit $2,500 into my bank account?
I lied.
I lied about Schwentke because I thought
if I told you... [sobs] what you wanted to hear,
you might let me go.
Please let me go home.
There is no Schwentke. I made him up.
-You made up Schwentke? -It's all part of the scenario.
I run a company that specializes in simulated abductions.
-What? -Designer kidnappings.
Call it like a heightened form of immersive theater, you know.
Oh, my God.
-You're insane. -No, no.
Look, a woman named Anna St. Blair called me a few days ago
and contracted me to kidnap her.
Up until now, I had every reason to believe you were that woman.
Why would...?
Why would I do...?
Why would anyone do this? Why would I hire you to do this to me?
These psychos pay you money to torture them?
No. They use our services for any number of reasons.
-Our? -My--My services.
I don't get it.
Don't they have loved ones, people that miss them while they're gone?
Typically a session only lasts eight hours,
not enough time to arouse suspicion.
Yours was a special case.
Let me guess, Ray.
You got carried away?
You paid for the weekend.
Ray, I've never seen that before.
You signed it.
No, no, no. That's not--
That can't be right. That's not--
You paid me half up front.
That says anonymous deposit.
Well, most of them are.
That does not come as a surprise to me.
Wait a minute.
[Anna] I saw you in the elevator this afternoon. You didn't say anything.
Were you outside my house, too?
You really should be more careful next time, Ray.
That's not my voice. I don't know who that is.
-That sounds a lot like you. -That's not me.
There must be someone else with my name.
No, no. That's too big a coincidence.
I mean, I saw you in the elevator that day. You brought it up earlier.
Were you outside my house?
Yes.
How long were you watching me?
A couple of days.
Call the number back.
-[tone sounds] -[message] We're sorry. The number you have reached is not in service. Please check--
Disconnected.
I can't believe I'm saying this, but there's only one logical explanation.
I mean, isn't it obvious? We were set up.
Who would do that? Who? Why?
Who would waste all of their time putting together such...
Such an elaborate plan?
Don't you have any enemies?
I mean, somebody that might benefit from you being sidelined for a few days?
You know, missing your big speech?
Me? I don't have any-- What about-- What about you?
I don't have any enemies.
You work with crazy people for a living.
I mean, you must have your fair share of disgruntled clients.
Disgruntled? Never. I'm very good at what I do.
Well...
No.
You're really not very good at what you do.
Do you know her?
-No, I don't think so. Who is she? -Have you ever been to Atlantic City?
Once I was there when, I think, I was a kid.
Who is she?
Nobody. I'm sure it's nothing.
-Where's my car? -It's in the garage.
-And my phone? -In the glove box.
-Perfect. -What are you gonna tell the police?
The truth. That you kidnapped me, that you hit me.
-I was just doing what I was told. -Fuck you.
Companies like this should not exist. It's dangerous.
-People can get hurt. -They'll send me to jail.
Ray, maybe you should've thought about that
before you kidnapped me in the first place.
Garage?
The keys aren't in the--
Ray.
I want you to think very carefully...
about your next move.
Okay?
Every second you hold onto those keys,
you're digging yourself in an even deeper hole.
I can't let you leave.
-Just hear me out. -[yells]
Okay, please, if you could just listen to me for one second--
-Stay back! -Ow! God.
-Stay back. -Okay, okay, I'm staying right here.
Right here. Right here.
-I'm leaving, Ray. Give me the keys. -Okay, okay, cool it.
Don't you tell me to fucking cool it, asshole. Give me the keys.
It's not a real gun.
-What? -That's not a real gun.
It's just a pellet gun.
-Oh, shit! -Give me the keys!
-Oh, fuck! -Give me the keys!
-[fires] -Oh, shit! Goddamn it!
Give me the keys, Ray!
I really wish you could see this from my point of view.
Give me the keys!
Okay. I'm really sorry about this.
What are you doing?
Are you fucking crazy? Spit it out!
You can't leave...
until we've sorted this out.
Spit it out, Ray.
I swallowed it. [gurgles]
I... [groans]
I just want us to talk about what happened
and come to a mutually beneficial conclusion.
Spit the keys out.
-I swallowed it. -Spit the keys!
-I swallowed it. -Spit them out!
I can feel it right here. God! I didn't want to do that.
Spit out the key!
I'll try.
Oh, gross!
-It's down there. -Ew!
-It's down there now. -Spit out my key! -[gags] -[phone rings]
-[message] Ahoy! -Help me!
Please help me! I've been kidnapped!
-You've just won... -[screams]
[Ray] Anna?
Anna?
Here. For your head.
Oh, this is a fucking nightmare.
Ah! Hey, cut it out. You want me to crash?
Stop it.
You can't do this. The police are looking for my car.
You know that, right?
I swapped out the plates. I had some fakes in storage.
-Where are you taking me? -We couldn't stay at my house anymore.
It was only a matter of time before the police swung back around.
-So I'm officially your hostage. -You're not my hostage.
Do you know that you're committing a felony right now, you asshole?
You know what, Anna? You know something?
You know what? Never mind. Forget about it.
It's not important.
-It's just... -Oh, brother...
Have you stopped to consider the amount of abuse that I've taken from you today?
Oh, you've gotta be fucking kidding me, right?
I am the victim here.
I am the victim in this scenario.
I am the victim here, not you!
-You're right. I apologize. -Oh, Jesus Christ. Don't apologize.
Fuck. Please just let me go.
I can't risk you going to the cops right now, okay?
Look, I know that there's a solution to this somewhere
and if you and I can just put our heads together and figure it out,
everything's gonna be okay, all right?
Okay.
[in trunk] You motherfucker! Let me out of here!
Fuck you! Fuck you, you motherfucker!
Fuck you! Let me out of here! Fuck!
You cool? Come on.
Just give me your hand. Just come over here.
Stop it. You're being silly now. Come on.
I honestly think you're gonna dig this place.
It's a family cabin. My dad built it in the 70s and my sis--
Anna!
Anna? Come on.
This doesn't have to be such a chore. Let's go.
What are you hiding from me for?
[Anna] Fuck! Fuck! Fuck!
[Ray] Believe me when I tell you that I never meant for it to come to this.
I know. I know you're not exactly my biggest fan right now.
To be honest, I'm not too pleased with myself either.
I'm really not a bad person.
I'm a good person caught up in a seismically fucked-up situation,
and you're not exactly making anything easier on me right now.
I like helping people.
That's why I do what I do. My whole business is about helping people.
My clients come to me to escape their everyday troubles
and immerse themselves in a scenario, however unorthodox,
that really helps them gain some solid perspective on life.
It's just you and them, cut off from the outside world,
when they get to that microcosm where time ceased to exist
and they're forced to retreat inward and really get to know themselves better.
And I'd say...
nine and a half times out of ten,
they emerge from that experience a more fulfilled human.
Hold on a second.
Sorry about that.
[whispers] That's not what microcosm means.
Huh, what?
That thing that you just said about time standing still,
that's not what microcosm means.
Do you want some food?
Yes, asshole. I'd like some food.
It's been over 36 hours since I've eaten anything.
Right.
Well, let me see what I can whip up here.
You might wanna think about trying to fix that thing on top of your head, also.
Oh, shit.
My sister.
She has nothing to do with this.
Her coming down in the basement, that was a total accident.
It's another reason I couldn't let you go to the cops.
You put her at the scene, that makes her an accessory. She has kids.
You're telling me you have a family that cares about you...
and you still pull this kind of shit?
They were supposed to get rid of that one. Why didn't they? Goddamn it.
This is Kendra, my ex-wife.
We met in Atlantic City. It was a long time ago.
We started this business together.
It's a huge tourism market over there.
At peak season we'd have two, three simulations going at once.
We were training personnel, we rented a warehouse...
[chuckles] We were good.
For the first time in my life, I didn't feel like a total failure.
But then...
But then I had to walk away.
Get outta town.
I guess Kendra figured she didn't need me anymore.
Got the lawyers involved, told a story or two.
I never saw it coming.
And here I am.
Did you love her?
Yeah.
Yeah. But I guess she showed me.
Can I take a shower?
I feel pretty gross. You know, I have all this... tape all over me.
I really don't think it's a good idea.
I promise you I'm not gonna make any trouble.
Where is she now?
Who knows? Who fucking cares?
You know, I was married once.
What did he do?
He left.
He broke my heart.
He didn't really want me.
But I can't really blame him 'cause I don't really know if I want me.
[shrieks, laughs] I just sat on the ball gag.
Trust me, it's been worse places.
No, don't say that. I just... That thing was just in my mouth.
What are you doing?
You're really not a kidnapper.
So, if I say that I won't go to the cops this whole thing is over.
It's all done.
-Yeah. More or less. -So you'd let me go?
Yeah, I would.
So I won't go to the cops.
I'll tell my boss, you know, something. I'll make up some kind of a story.
-You'd do that? -Yeah.
Yes.
-Thank you. -Thank you.
I'm sorry.
There's just one thing that I kind of wanna know.
Your ex-wife, what did she say?
It's just that she must've made up some terrible accusations
and I'm wondering what they are or were.
-Why are you asking me that? -Clearly she's the one that set us up.
There's nobody else that would have that kind of vendetta--
There's no vendetta.
Okay. So can you tell me what she said?
It has nothing to do with this. Just drop it.
I think you're afraid to tell me.
I think you're afraid to tell me because it's true
and because you want me to like you.
But you know what, Ray?
I don't like you.
And I'm never going to like you.
Do you wanna know why?
Because I think everything you've said is bullshit.
What I think is that you like being in control.
I think you like tying people up, I think you like feeling big.
What did you do, Ray?
Did you tie her up?
Did you push her around?
Just when we practiced the simulations.
You hit her, didn't you?
-Just the once, because she asked me to. -Did you like it?
-Do you wanna hit me? -No.
Oh, come on, Ray. I've been really bad.
-Are you sure you don't wanna hit me? -No--
-That belonged to my mother. -Oh, I'm sorry, Mom.
-You're being inconsiderate. -Am I? Do I need to be punished?
Don't.
-I'm so sorry. -[grunts]
-Ground-line hitch? -Constrictor knot.
I learned it at camp.
Okay, that's not a pellet gun.
Your brother-in-law really should've found a better hiding place.
Listen, Anna. If it's the keys to the car you're looking for, they're in my pocket.
Oh, no, no.
No. We are way past that.
I'm really sorry, Anna. You know, none of this was supposed to happen.
But it did.
It did happen.
So now we've gotta work with what we've got.
Unfortunately, Ray, I'm not quite as creative as you are.
Listen, you think you could loosen these a little?
I can't feel my hands.
Okay. Well, look, if you want the cops to come out here,
it's not gonna happen because the phones, they don't work this far out.
I know that.
I'd like you to get in the trunk, now.
No, come on.
Don't piss me off, Ray.
Get...
in...
the trunk.
-Okay. -[screams] Get in the trunk!
-[fires] -Fuck! Fuck!
You could've blown my foot off! You could've fucking crippled me!
Get in the trunk.
Okay, look. Please, I'm begging you. Don't do this.
Okay? There's...
I know I'm fucked up, okay? I know I need help.
But please don't make me get in there.
Leave me here. I don't wanna go, I wanna stay.
Oh, just do it. Just shoot me. Just kill me.
No.
No. No, don't fire. Don't fire, don't fire.
Fuck.
Are you done? I don't have time for this.
I need you to get into the trunk.
All right. Want me to go in the trunk?
Get in the trunk, Ray! Get in the trunk!
In the trunk I go. See? I'm getting in the trunk.
I'd like you to do it without the narration. Oh. Goddamn it.
Oh. Goddamn it.
You ready to test your theory about microcosms out?
Wait, wait! What are you gonna do to me?
Welcome back.
Oh, shit.
Are we at the police station or...?
Oh, no, we're at the top of my office parking lot.
I hope that that's okay.
It's just I have a lot of work to get done.
A person in my position normally can't disappear
for an entire weekend without repercussions, so...
I'm sorry, what?
Ray.
You can drop the act.
It's been 48 hours. The weekend's over. The scenario's done.
I called the police on my way over.
You really were not kidding about them being concerned, were you?
Does that usually happen?
What am I thinking? You must be dehydrated.
I know I certainly was when you had me back there.
And before you even ask, I called the bank.
They're in the process of transferring the other $2,500
from my account over to yours.
Of course I didn't factor in for incidentals,
and damages and medical expenses that were incurred during our run.
Do you have a ballpark for that, maybe?
You know what? Just think about it.
Whatever you think is fair, let me know. Fax it over and we'll, um..
We'll settle it. Ray.
I am really impressed with how in-depth your service went.
I mean, the second location? Those crazy stories?
The role reversal at the end with the rifle?
I mean, that must have taken tremendous planning,
not to mention the appropriate foresight to gauge all the variables.
I'm sorry if I went too far. I get very into the roleplay.
I like to imagine...
what it would feel like if I were really in that situation and just...
Can I talk to you about the slapping?
Honestly, I would've liked a little bit more of it.
I kept trying to goad you and goad you, but you really wouldn't take the bait.
But that... The choke at the end, was that improvised? -Mm-hm. -That was amazing.
-Mm-hm. -That was amazing. Yeah, thanks.
I really think that your concept could have legs
with the right strategy behind it.
-Oh, yeah? -Absolutely.
I'm a consultant. This is what I do for a living.
I gotta get going. I gotta get going.
I keep it next to my toothbrush so I remember to take it.
Takes about 40 minutes to kick in and you can feel it.
I start to sweat.
My heart accelerates very rapidly.
[Blue] The fives get you through the day a little faster.
But if it's Monday, sometimes you take ten.
[Matthew] From there, this wave of happiness hit me that was like a warm glow.
[Delaney] Suddenly, I could pay attention and my handwriting got neater.
I thought that was so cool.
[Eben] My mind came alive, my body felt alive.
When it works, it works like a bang.
[man] Suddenly, you are in a room with 10,000 doors
and behind a bunch of the doors is some cool stuff.
You are gonna wanna try and run as fast as possible
and stay awake as long as possible, to look in all the doors.
[interviewer] What did Adderall do for you when you were playing the game?
[Jasper] Laser-like focus, reaction time increased, alert.
[Leigh] The first week I took it, I was like, "I like this. This is good."
[Nathanael] Adderall. Warning,
side effects may include being awesome at everything.
[Blue] It's like the New York Stock Exchange ticker.
That's what my mind looks like all the time.
When I take Adderall, it's like the ticker slows down.
[Jasper] I can zone in on something and completely ignore everything.
[Peter] Every investment banker hears about the heyday of cocaine
and doing it off their desks and doing it off strippers,
and that's not how it is with Adderall.
-Who takes Adderall anymore? -[Carver] Half the kids in Palo Alto.
-[Ariana] You name it, I've tried it. -[Regina] Adderall.
[Ariana] Ritalin, Concerta, Adderall, Vyvanse, Focalin.
[Brigid Polk] Amphetamine...
[Fadiman] The idea that children were given amphetamine in the '60s
would have appalled everyone.
From now on, it's nothing but fresh air, lots of hugs
and good old-fashioned Ritalin.
[Delaney] I am Adderall. I'm never not on it.
I would never think of something as me not being on Adderall.
This is the most ridiculous bathroom in the entire world.
Everyone has their own starter pack.
It's like a little telling of y'all are.
"Free the nipple."
Jews 'cause I'm Jewish.
"New Jersey" 'cause I tell people I'm from New York, but I'm not.
I'm from New Jersey. So that's a running joke.
And a Jew smoking weed through a menorah.
This is my favorite thing in here.
Every time we go out, we take something home with us.
So, my parents, right before I left to school, were like,
"We need to get you a lockbox."
And I was like, "Why?"
They were like, "For your pills."
I was like, "What do you mean, a lockbox? Who's gonna take my pills?"
It's Rx gold.
People will take it from you if they know you have it.
I don't think I know anyone that is prescribed it
that doesn't sell a little on the side.
That's a big thing here 'cause it's a hard school,
so a lot of people are on Adderall.
Why would anyone wanna put this in their body?
[Ariana] This is trazodone.
This is Ativan, for my panic attacks.
Then when I got here, I was like,
"Holy shit. Everybody takes Adderall. Everyone."
[Jasper] That's an empty one.
[Leigh] I've openly seen people in classes take out their bottle
and hand off pills to someone next to them.
"Anyone have Addie I could buy? Please. Please."
Sometimes I forget that it's illegal.
There's a public Facebook group, like a classifieds,
buying and selling anything.
And people will post in there that they're selling 20 XR Adderall,
and not think that they are drug dealing in a public forum.
My mom didn't hide it, but I hide it.
Adderall and Instagram are hand in hand in being the perfect student.
[Delaney] You wanna be beautiful and skinny, and you wanna have amazing grades,
and then you also wanna be able to go out, and Adderall just sews it all up for you.
You've got instant release versus extended release.
People will take it and sit down at the little cubicles in the library.
They lay out everything,
that way you can't be distracted by anything else.
And you have a set playlist,
and people will put in their ear buds, and you're ready to roll.
[Brown] At the simplest level, the norms that I would say
are driving use of performance enhancing drugs
are those that simply tell us, "Your task is to concentrate,
to perform at the highest capacity that you possibly can,
and to do it for as long as it takes."
Whether it's at an investment bank, or whether it's a homework assignment,
the question is, "How can you come out on top?"
[Leigh] Obviously, if you're presented with something
that will maximize the good things in your life,
you'll get everything you can out of it.
Of course you're gonna want it.
I was talking to someone about this and they're like,
"Isn't it the same thing as having a good breakfast before an exam
and drinking a cup of coffee?
Why is medication the thing that's so immoral or unethical
about getting an edge over everyone else?"
Let's see. I'm taking five classes.
So if I get a 90 on the paper, an 82 on the exam today,
I'll get an 89.77.
So that's not gonna fly, unless she rounds up.
So, let's say an 83,
but it's also a pride thing.
I'd like to finish strong, stronger than I started.
Adderall, for me, has always been like when you're desperate and hopeless,
and you're like, "I need this right now
because I need to be my best, smartest, fastest self."
[Brown] The problem today isn't that jobs are scarcer,
or that positions in schools are fewer.
It's that we live in a hypercompetitive order,
where the competition is not just for arriving,
but the competition is never-ending.
Every human being is now required to understand themselves
as a little bit of human capital.
Parents are terribly concerned,
from before the moment that their children are born,
about what that human capital value will be in their child,
and are tending it with everything from Mozart in the womb
to positions in preschools and access to certain kinds of sports
and certain kinds of curriculums.
The anxiety about the human capital value
that their children are able to develop
leads, I think, almost inexorably toward Adderall,
either offered by the parents or offered to peers by one another
once they hit high school and college.
I sometimes joke about how when I was in college,
people did drugs to check out.
And now people do drugs to check in.
And that says something about our culture right now.
[interviewer] What do you think it says? It makes me kind of depressed.
We probably have meds for that.
I had tons of friends in high school that were on Adderall,
and because they were on Adderall or Vyvanse or something like that,
were getting two and a half time on the SATs or something,
and got to take it alone. And I wanted it.
I had three straight days with this psychiatrist.
I remember the testing was so stressful for me
'cause it's made to make you feel dumb
and feel like you can't complete these tasks that other people can.
That was the first time I was like, "I might really need this."
ADD is a condition where people have more trouble focusing with their attention.
People typically are distractible. Because there aren't clear-cut boundaries,
it becomes fuzzy of what do you treat and what do you not treat.
[Leigh] I got diagnosed by the psychiatrist,
and I was thrilled because I had the SAT in a couple months.
I had never tried it,
but the first week that I took it, I was like,
"I like this. This is good."
I remember I was concerned about not feeling entirely myself,
too zoned and I didn't feel as funny as usual.
I remember saying that.
But you had to pick and choose,
and I wanted to pick getting good grades and doing well on the SAT.
[Schwarz] The desire to do better is pretty universal.
People like succeeding.
People like not letting others down.
So, what you've seen is that every generation has found a different way
to try to enhance their performance.
Now in this case, a lot of the time, it has been what we now call ADHD drugs.
[newscaster] In the high pressure rat race of academic achievement,
there is one fix students are turning to at an alarming rate to get ahead.
[interviewer] And how are you doing that?
[man] Adderall. I've never gotten a B in my life.
[reporter] Some students are calling it college crack.
[Danny Brown sings] ♪ Eating on an Adderall ♪ ♪ Wash it down with alcohol ♪
♪ Writing holy mackerel Actual or factual ♪
[Tom Lehrer singing] ♪ To the beer and Benzedrine ♪
[Future singing] ♪ I can't feel my face I'm on Adderall, nauseous ♪
[Tom Lehrer singing] ♪ Golden college days ♪
The first article about college abuse of amphetamine to study
was in Time magazine in 1937.
This ain't new.
[Rasmussen] In the early days, they called it the pep-pill.
Pep is what Americans want.
It's about drive, ambition, being productive and hardworking,
and making the sale, and getting the job done.
[man] Kellogg's Pep sure is a treat to eat.
[Rasmussen] So, Dr. Gordon Alles was a young biochemist
trying to create an allergy medicine.
And that's how, in 1929,
he happened to synthesize the drug we now call amphetamine.
He injected himself with 50 milligrams of the salt,
which is quite a high dose.
And his lab notes are absolutely fascinating.
Within minutes, he's like, "Strong feeling of well-being."
He's like, "I really like this!"
[Rasmussen] After about an hour, Alles noted,
"Feeling of well-being, palpitation, rather sleepless night,
mind seemed to race from one subject to another."
This is the record of the first amphetamine experience,
Alles' self-experiment in June, 1929.
It's very clear that from the beginning, this amphetamine product was a compound,
a chemical that needed a medical use.
[Schwarz] It didn't take long for amphetamine to become a prescription medication.
In the mid-1930s, Smith Kline & French introduced it as Benzedrine.
And you would snort it and it would clear your sinuses.
The problem is, amphetamine feels really good to a lot of people,
and it gets them jazzed and ready to perform.
[Harry Gibson singing] ♪ Who put the Benzedrine ♪ ♪ In Mrs. Murphy's Ovaltine? ♪
♪ Now she wants to swing The Highland Fling ♪
♪ She says that Benzedrine's the thing That makes her spring ♪
[Schwarz] College kids, and other people, started taking the gauze out
and chewing it to get the amphetamine into their system more quickly.
[Fred Astaire singing] ♪ I'm like the B-19 Loaded with Benzedrine ♪
♪ When I come on the scene I bust a hole in the sky ♪
[Rasmussen] When World War II broke out,
military doctors in Germany tried it on some military cadets.
Of course, the students liked it.
The British found these pills in downed German planes.
They seemed to be acting like supermen,
and maybe it was drugs that were making them supermen.
The American military,
when they saw that the British were approving the drug and introducing it,
they hurried along the studies and took it on, too.
Just a cup of coffee.
Really, Mr. Holden,
a hardworking executive like you should have a hot lunch.
Very well. Just scramble me a couple of Benzedrine tablets.
[Rasmussen] Benzedrine took off after the war as a general practice antidepressant.
So did Dexedrine.
Among its uses was weight control.
Also, painful menstruation, what we'd call PMD, was tested.
This is a funny trial.
The doctor who was running it was working at a factory
where all the assembly line workers were women.
The subjects were requesting more of it,
but it turned out that the demand
had nothing to do with their actual menstrual cycle.
They just liked taking the drugs.
Spot on.
[man] One, two...
[Rasmussen] Amphetamine inhalers became a kind of a staple in jazz culture,
particularly in the bebop circles.
Charlie Parker was certainly a regular user.
Some of the people that are later remembered
as the important beat writers, like Jack Kerouac,
were going to these jazz clubs.
Kerouac really admired the way bebop sounded
and he wanted to model his own writing
after this very spontaneous, free rush of sound.
"Come on, boy, go thou across the ground. Go moan for man. Go moan, go groan."
[Rasmussen] When he discovered the amphetamine inhaler,
he really took to it and used it as an aid for his writing for a long time.
It was normal to have amphetamine when you wanted it.
Most people probably just got it
by asking for a prescription from their family practitioner.
Turn around and drop your pants. This goes in the gluteus.
What is it?
It's an energy serum.
Max Jacobson, who's known as Dr. Feelgood by many of his patients,
was one of these speed doctors.
For a time, he was John F. Kennedy's favorite doctor.
[Don Draper] What does it do?
24 to 72 hours of uninterrupted creative focus, energy and confidence.
Really?
And if you listen to The Beatles, the song "Doctor Robert"
is about a doctor in New York who'd freely prescribe amphetamine
to rock stars and celebrities who wanted it.
[The Beatles singing] ♪ Well, well, well, you're feeling fine ♪
[Rasmussen] The '60s were called the go-go years for a number of reasons.
And that's the way Andy Warhol experienced the early '60s,
up on amphetamine all the time. Not just him, his whole scene.
Whoo!
And let me see, the right side or the left side?
Oh, well, you never...
Doesn't matter if you get the left or the right, or go drop dead.
Ding! [Schwarz] A lot of women, and men, don't get me wrong,
soldiers in Vietnam, got horribly addicted.
That's why we have the Controlled Substances Act.
[Frank Zappa] Hi, wanna die?
Start today, use a little speed, you've got five years.
Rot your mind, rot your heart, rot your kidneys, cucaracha.
[announcer] A public service announcement of the Do It Now Foundation.
[Rasmussen] By the height of the pharmaceutical speed epidemic,
50 pills per man, woman and child per year
were being manufactured by US pharmaceutical firms.
The ingredients are essentially the same as what's used
for attention deficit today, including Adderall.
Adderall is a performance enhancer, yes.
Um, and I don't think there's anything wrong with that.
[Nathanael] When you hit the sweet spot with Adderall, it's like a Zen flow.
Everything quiet, you're quiet,
and things are just there, and so are you,
and then you just do what you need to do.
I have an electric unicycle.
I'm riding like I do every day. I think I was going to Home Depot.
Somebody leans out of the car window and goes, "Fuck you, techie."
Only in the Bay Area would that happen.
It was weird 'cause they just assumed
since I was on an electric unicycle that I must be in tech.
There is an archetype in tech of a person who,
in most cases, doesn't exist,
and he works 16 hours a day, every day, and the code just comes out of him.
And just flawlessly from start to finish, it's just Mozart on the screen.
And everybody wants to be that person.
I did, and I'm sure some part of me still does.
We all want to be awesome at the things that we're trying to do.
And then you throw Adderall into the mix,
and that lets you be the person that's there till midnight or 1:00.
[Eben] Let's go!
You guys know the drill. Give me a good base, a good knee bend.
Pull that belly button to your spine, tighten that core up.
The thing with football is you have to love it.
It's way too hard on your body, and your mind, really.
Go! Keep pushing it.
[announcer 1] Eben Britton, right here, a lot people are saying
that may be the best offensive tackle in the country.
[announcer 2] Arizona has won their home opener.
[Eben] There's nothing that can describe that.
That was the biggest win we've had in a long time.
You don't make it to Division I football, period,
if you can't push yourself to superhuman feats.
And then to make it to the NFL,
that's like a 0.1% of every kid that's ever picked up a football.
[Eben] I don't know if there's a way to get to perfect,
but that's what you're always looking for.
[Brit] I miss the rookie season. That was the drama-free, happy season.
[Eben] Yeah.
Man, I was kicking ass. I'm healthy, I'm strong, I'm quick.
I'm just building on the success that I had in my rookie year.
And we're in a workout, and we're doing squats,
and I went down, and I just feel this squirting.
It's like a tube of toothpaste, somebody just went like...
We started doing tests, and it's like, "Shit, it's a herniated disc. Clearly."
Come on, don't step on those.
I come back to training camp and the coaches were like,
"Dude, what the fuck happened to you?"
It doesn't matter if you're hurt or not. Every guy is hurt.
It's, "Can you get out there and play?"
Because there's always somebody coming behind you to take your job.
This Monday night game,
I was at this breaking point of exhaustion and frustration,
and one of our teammates was like, "I got Adderall."
I took them, and I just felt jolted back to life.
I felt this surge of energy rush through me.
My mind came alive. My body felt alive.
I felt like I was able to get a jump on the snap count,
and I was able to react faster than guys were,
and I could see things that were happening,
like, corners blitzing...
A stimulant is a drug that stimulates people.
It makes you feel more up and awake and alert.
And they also increase euphoria.
All of those things are very positive.
That's why people have their caffeine in the morning.
[Diller] So there's two main groups of stimulants.
There's amphetamine and methylphenidate.
Methylphenidate is the major constituent of Ritalin and Concerta,
two drugs that are very, very widely used.
And amphetamine is the major constituent of Adderall.
This whole class of medications that we think of stimulants
work on the catecholamine system in the brain.
And there are two parts of the catecholamine system.
One is called norepinephrine, or colloquially sometimes
people think about that as noradrenaline or adrenaline.
And the other is dopamine.
And what these drugs typically do in the brain is,
they either enhance the release of catecholamines
or they block its reuptake.
[Hinshaw] They increase reaction time,
they probably increase some tolerance to pain
during the intensity of athletic competition.
[Diller] Low doses of amphetamine or amphetamine-like drugs
get anyone who takes it, child or adult,
to become more deliberate and more methodical.
They will tend to stick with things longer
that are not of interest or are boring.
Adderall had this holistic enhancing effect
to my life at that time.
It helped me in the meetings, film study, game review.
It helped me dealing with the pain.
That was really what spurned on this thing,
like, "I just have to get access to this,
and I have to do it the right way because I don't wanna fail a drug test.
I don't wanna do any of that.
But this is something that can really help me."
[Hinshaw] If you are a professional athlete in the United States,
you can't take stimulants unless you have what's called an exemption.
And a doctor must certify that you legitimately have ADHD
and the stimulants aren't just performance enhancers,
but they're part of your medication.
[Eben] I wasn't even that big then.
I was so happy because it was so obvious that he took it one day,
and then that night,
he was doing exactly what I had been wanting him to do.
Right away, I'd take the trash out or I'd do the dishes.
And I organized my DVD collection by director, alphabetically.
And I think I even called my mom and told her,
"This is so great.
Eb's been diagnosed with ADD and he's doing the dishes."
And I was like, "This is really good.
I'm making her happy.
I'm not coming home and just crashing on the couch."
[Nathanael] The very first time I took Adderall,
I had ADHD symptoms and I went to see a military doctor,
and I got a prescription. I really didn't like it.
It made me more focused on my distractions
rather than more focused on what I was supposed to be doing.
And so I didn't take it again until this year.
I was doing a really intensive programming boot camp.
Someone offered it to me, and it was 1:00 in the morning.
I was like, "I've had a prescription, so I don't feel too bad about this."
I took him up on it and it really helped.
It was definitely jet fuel. Yeah.
I didn't need much at all. I'd take five or ten milligrams a day.
Problems that were previously really exhausting,
or maybe seemed insurmountable, were interesting challenges.
I had the discipline to tear myself away from work,
come home at 11:00, and in ten minutes,
just like, protein shake, brush teeth, go to bed.
And then I went, "Adderall.
Warning, side effects may include being awesome at everything."
And that's how it felt.
I'm sure for a lot of people, they would say, or believe,
or it might be true,
that they're just trying to be the best programmers they can be.
But for most people, I think the end goal is money.
Hello. Thank you. All right, cool. Later.
The best description of the first time I took Adderall
is kind of like somebody pulls back the curtain,
and now you're able to focus on each person in the audience.
Okay, tell her Blue called.
Adderall definitely helps you be a better capitalist.
When I'm on my Adderall, I'm here to solve problems.
What's the problem? Line 'em up, I knock 'em down.
[woman] She said 175.
[Blue] Let me tell 'em.
I've been blessed to work with Outkast and CeeLo Green, Nick Cannon.
As a manager, you deal with so many different people.
I deal with the business managers,
the label, the accountants, the tour agents.
When you're on your Adderall, it is easier to keep track of people
and to call those people back 'cause you don't forget.
Yo, Mario, it's Blue calling you back.
When you're not on it, people, you get to 'em when you get to 'em.
You're just mad 'cause the good managers are from New York.
We're gonna get to work on this PowerPoint slide
for the Wild 'n Out Summer Pool Parties.
The deal I'm cutting is, any sponsorships we bring in,
we can split with the hotel.
[woman] Is there a deadline?
[Blue] It's Monday. Wednesday would be the ideal time.
If this was Puff, he'd want it Wednesday.
Morning, when I get back from Chicago, I want that deck.
-[woman] With his cheesecake. -Thank you.
In high school, the only reason why I really knew Adderall
was because my siblings were prescribed it.
But no one took it to study, no one took it to party.
It's so hard, minus all the ethical implications,
but knowing that it's out there and it's so easy
and you're just ignoring that, you're ignoring.
You'll take the B when you know you could have gotten an A
just by popping a $2 pill, if you're gonna buy.
You also aren't worried about getting in trouble for it
because you're just a kid with a learning disability.
You're not a drug... You didn't purchase drugs illegally.
I can see a lot of people
that are concerned about buying or selling illegal drugs.
Like, that would be just the same as them buying heroin.
They can process that.
But for a ton of people like us,
you would never be scared of getting caught by a campus police,
or your professor would tell someone,
'cause it's really not thought of as a drug in your mind.
[Delaney] I forgot to take my morning meds today.
Not Adderall. Nope. It can be unfair.
I have a weird relationship with the way that I think about it,
because I was surrounded by people that had a lot more money than I did.
I had to work in high school,
and I couldn't afford private tutors for classes.
So, on one hand, I feel like, if you were someone like me,
using Adderall could have been leveling out the playing field.
But on the other hand, if you're someone like some of those kids,
then you're just giving yourself even more of a leg-up.
I'm from the Midwest, from a place that has a lot of problems with meth.
You see all this stuff on the news, and the juxtaposition between
the meth-head that lives in the trailer park
that we learned about in D.A.R.E.,
versus the kids whose parents make well over six figures a year.
They're both tweaking out, if you think about it.
Just like opiate painkillers are heroin in a pill,
Just like opiate painkillers are heroin in a pill, ADHD medicine is a small dose of meth in a pill.
ADHD medicine is a small dose of meth in a pill.
When we think about methamphetamine from a chemical perspective,
and we think about amphetamine, the active ingredient in Adderall,
the only difference between these drugs
is an additional methyl group on the methamphetamine compound.
Methamphetamine is legal in the United States for prescription.
It's a Schedule II drug, just like Adderall is a Schedule II drug.
But people don't prescribe it as much because of the public hysteria
surrounding illicit methamphetamine.
[officer] We got a search warrant.
They said meth would help me get through my exams.
[Hart] So we think about people who have meth labs,
we think about people who are living in rural America,
all within a negative context.
Then, we contrast that with another amphetamine
that has similar effects.
[woman] Girls, time for your Adderall.
What time did you guys get home last night?
Uh, late.
We oftentimes think of that in a different context.
We think about people who have prescriptions for Adderall,
we think about college students,
we think about people in our society who we like.
I just ended up accidentally taking, like, six Adderall.
I stayed up all night,
I did a real deep dive into Ryan Dillon Davidson's Facebook page,
and I found some shit.
Wealthier kids have access to purified pharmaceutical speed,
and other communities have access to meth. You know, cooked meth.
Although the potency is definitely greater in crystal meth, in smoking it, etcetera,
at the neuroreceptor sites, it has the exact same effects.
[Leigh] I'm surrounded by very privileged people.
These are wealthy people in America.
We have the money to get tested,
the resources to afford being medicated every day of your life,
where you can maximize everything.
Even negotiating the healthcare system and finding the right doctors
is also a matter of privilege, right?
Some people know how to do it and a lot of people don't.
If you have the right connections, if you know who to go see,
I think that also becomes easier to do.
Adderall is perfect for finance work and any type of work
Adderall is perfect for finance work and any type of work where you have to be detail-oriented,
where you have to be detail-oriented,
which is what finance work is.
While I was at Goldman,
I never told anybody that wasn't under the age of 25.
You had to feel it out before you would ever reveal you took Adderall.
And I think there is this fear that, if you reveal it,
then, A, they've never heard of it, they don't get it.
And B, they'll view you as weaker, as inferior,
and they may view you as somebody that can't keep up.
When getting it from my friends became expensive,
I decided it was time to find a doctor in New York.
So, all I did was send a text to a few friends.
So I ended up going to Central Park South, and it was a fancy office,
and it was a nice old man.
And I think once he heard I work for Goldman Sachs,
he was like, "Okay, cool.
He's normal, he'll be fine. He's a version of my idea of successful.
I can write him whatever prescription he needs."
I probably have six or seven friends that go to him currently.
There was a great line in a comedy, Silicon Valley,
when one of the tech workers needed Adderall and couldn't find it,
and the line was, "Just go out on the street on a bicycle.
Half the kids in Palo Alto are taking it."
Hey.
Any of you guys currently on Adderall
and, you know, want to make $50?
This is the generation beginning in the mid-'90s
that was widely exposed to the use of Adderall and Ritalin and Concerta,
amongst their peers.
[Danny Brown singing] ♪ Scribbled in my notebook ♪ ♪ And never did homework ♪
♪ Low attention span Guess these Adderall worked ♪
I'm not an MD, but it is possible for Ritalin to get you pretty high.
That's probably what it is. It is a new medication.
♪ It is a new medication ♪
-I'm afraid I'll have to expel your son. -[gasps]
Unless you're willing to try a radical, untested, potentially dangerous--
-Candy bar? -No. It's a new drug called Focusyn.
A drug?
[Jasper] I learned about ADD after being on the medication,
so, I didn't know what it was.
All I knew was it was for school.
It was always just about being easier on the teachers
and being easier on my parents and just being not as loud.
And, I guess, focusing.
But I never had interest in school,
and I focused in, always, what I wanted to focus in.
And that was art and, I guess,
reading when I could read, which took some time.
All right. Let's see, man. How's everything? How's the art?
Good. I got to get ready to do my senior show this year show.
So I'm going to be keeping really, really busy.
-How's it going with your medicines? -Good.
Still taking 'em?
Yeah, but not as much. I take them when I need them.
[doctor] Okay. So sporadically, like we've done before?
Yeah. And I kind of think I would like to stop soon.
-Okay. Good. -Just stop altogether.
Remember we talked about this is just developmental in the brain,
and as you get more mature,
your brain grows more mature, those neurons start making connections.
Then you don't need to use them.
[Jasper] Yeah. I would like to be done with it. [doctor] Let's see.
-I've had enough since third grade. -Yeah.
[Jasper] Should I mash these tomatoes?
[Regina] Yeah, I'll help if you want.
[Jasper] Yes. Do it by hand?
Just get in there, yeah. It says crush them by hand.
You're doing fine.
Go gentle. Gently.
[Jasper] I went to a Montessori school when I was younger,
along with my sister and cousins.
You wanna start slicing that? I'll do this.
Sure.
[Jasper] They did well in those schools, and I didn't.
When he was little, everybody else would know their alphabet and numbers.
And he couldn't necessarily identify a number from a letter.
-Sorry. -That's okay.
So, we had him tested, and they said that he had ADD.
So we moved him to another school that really...
A very good school, very good.
[Regina] His third-grade teacher, halfway through the year,
said something about him being on medication.
I'm like, "Well, he's not on medication."
And she goes, "Everybody in this class is on medication."
And I'm like, "He's not."
She goes, "Well, I think that you might want to try it."
I was only there for two years before being prescribed Adderall.
[Regina] It was definitely a hard decision
because I was afraid it was gonna hurt his creativity.
I mean, even at three, you could just see he had something.
I didn't want to ruin that.
I tried it, and there was a difference in him that
was just able to concentrate more.
I tested it, because I wanted to see what it did.
And apparently, I have ADHD, too, because it worked.
So, it just helps you concentrate.
So do you think I have ADD, or...
We won't know that until the Ritalin helps this concentration problem.
[Hinshaw] Not so many years ago, the medical profession thought,
"Wait a minute. I'm not sure if this kid has ADHD or not.
There's no definitive test. I'll give her a stimulant and see if it works.
If it works, she has ADHD. If it doesn't, she doesn't."
Interesting idea, probably wrong.
Most everybody who takes a stimulant does focus better and longer,
can pull that all-nighter.
[Jasper] I was being forced to take pills.
That's the thing. I'm not doing it 'cause it's fun and stuff.
I'm doing it 'cause I have to.
When I was in 9th grade, I was taking 50 milligrams a day.
I'd get home from school still grinding my teeth, still wired.
I'd be up till 6:00 in the morning,
just painting in my room 'cause I'd still be wired from it.
The only difference between children and adults, as far as I can see,
in the use of these medicines, is children don't like the higher doses.
As they get higher, they say, "I feel nervous, I feel weird."
And something happens in mid adolescence, that the older adolescents
and adults will often say, "I feel powerful, I feel grand."
[Jasper] I was super embarrassed by it.
When I started going to public school,
it was like, "Yeah, I'm on medicine."
I thought it was funny, just being like, "I have to take pills to calm down."
I was always yelling upstairs,
"Did you take your pills?"
Or, if he was not listening to me or behaving badly,
I would also ask that question, which is probably
more of the annoyance of why he picked up on that.
[Jasper] That's when I started writing stuff like "Take your pills."
And trying to force myself
to be proud of the fact that I can zone in on something
and completely ignore everything.
I started to be proud of it.
Getting up was the obsession.
Just going around with people and being, "That's me."
[Regina] They're just beautiful. Everything he does I love.
[Jasper] The paintings don't really go with the idea of being on Adderall,
except for just being super meticulous and super correct,
and repeated over and over again.
That's what I found to be the connection between that and my Adderall,
was just the obsessiveness.
[Ariana] Everyone says this. For some reason, everyone's like,
"Everyone has a little ADD."
No, that's not true. We have distractions in our life,
but not everyone has a brain that functions like somebody's with ADHD.
One of my earliest memories is being diagnosed.
It's pretty detrimental for people to constantly be saying things like that,
because it kind of illegitimizes... Is that a word?
[chuckling] Illegitimizes the struggle
and the actual power that ADHD might have over somebody's life.
And it is a disorder.
It causes a lot of issues, and there's a stigma around it.
And I think that people throw it off
like it's nothing and like everyone has a bit of it, but it's not true.
[Blue] A lot of people out there think they have it because they can't focus.
But they really can't focus because society has just taught you not to focus.
We've become this one-minute society.
Everything is about shortening attention spans anyway.
So, society, overall, now has ADD.
So then, where's the line between those that actually were born with it,
and those that have grown up in an ADD society.
I think that's where we really are right now.
I try and stay out of the pool during photo shoots.
-Nick looks like he's really struggling. -Man, a hard day's work.
[laughing] It's a tough life today.
I didn't have medication in mind when I went to the doctor.
I kind of knew that I had the signs of ADHD,
just looking at peers, Russell Simmons,
and then I placed myself somewhere on that spectrum.
I talked to Russell a couple of times.
His answer was, "I don't take medicine. I do yoga."
And I went to yoga with him.
I was like, "I don't know if this is gonna get it done for me right now."
Here we go.
[Maxine] We never had a discussion about his ADD as a child.
I didn't think he needed to have a label.
I think he needed to understand that he needed coping skills.
She never took me to a doctor to even consider medication.
She wanted me to learn how to function within the confines
of what I was and who I was going to grow up to be.
Shit, am I in the shot again? Am I in the shot again? My bad.
Having been a special ed teacher,
I've watched, to me,
systemic administration of drugs to little black boys.
I know upon viewing that, I really did not want to...
I must say black and Hispanic little boys.
I knew that I did not want that for my child.
So it was not a happy moment when he announced that,
after all those years of not using medication,
that he felt he needed to do that.
As a kid, I thought of Ritalin as what you put the crazy kids on.
Not knowing that I, technically, should I have been on it.
Everyone was to go on Ritalin and that was the instant cure.
I didn't see it as instant cure, so I would never agree to it.
Just ran him outside a lot.
Ritalin started as a love story.
A scientist in Switzerland was fiddling around with compounds
and things that were close to amphetamine.
He came up with something he thought might help his wife be more peppy,
play better tennis, literally, and maybe keep her weight down.
He was like, "There's really something to this."
Her name, Marguerite. She was actually known as Rita,
and so he named it Ritaline.
And it was only after Ciba, the Swiss company, put it on the market,
that they took off the '"E," and we now know it forever as Ritalin.
[Conners] In the beginning,
we were completely enamored of the short term effect.
There's nothing so gratifying
as to have the parent come the day after you first give a pill
and say, you know, "I can't believe it.
He's actually... He's normal.
He's a likable kid now."
Oh, you're such a good girl.
[Schwarz] Keith Conners was a seminal figure in the history of ADHD.
He developed the primary rating scale
that was used by doctors to help understand
the clinical picture in children.
He worked on behalf of pharmaceutical companies evaluating new drugs.
Nobody knew anything about all this stuff.
These were difference makers in mental health.
What these doctors at Johns Hopkins were doing
was seeing if there was another pill
other than amphetamine, which had a terrible reputation,
that might help these troubled children.
Now, how are you going to get methylphenidate?
The only way to get it is to ask Ciba for it,
the Swiss company that marketed it.
They said, "Hey, Ciba, can we have a gazillion pills?"
And this oil drum sized barrel of Ritalin pills
ends up coming to Johns Hopkins so they can do their trials.
[Conners] In those days it was possible to go to the principal and say,
"You know, we're trying out a new drug."
And he'd say, "Oh, my God,
if you could calm these little bastards down, it would be wonderful."
We arranged a study on the spot
and did a two-week trial.
The children called the pills math pills.
Because, for the first time,
they were able to sit down and do sums and learn.
The hyperactivity and inability to pay attention among children,
has been understood for a long time.
That's the way some kids are.
And one of the first names was Minimal Brain Damage.
They assumed that there was some sort of damage to the brain.
Either in birth or encephalitis.
It became increasingly clear that that really wasn't the case.
They said, "How about minimal brain dysfunction?"
It was only in 1980 that focus began, if you will,
on the concept of inattention in children.
How about attention deficit disorder.
It had been rebranded as something that people were willing to accept.
And people were willing to allow medication for.
[Rasmussen] In 1996, another company reintroduced, effectively, amphetamine,
same old amphetamine, for attention deficit
on the US market as Adderall.
And it's grown to absolutely enormous proportions ever since then.
The drug that became Adderall, its original name was Obetrol.
A pharmaceutical businessman heard Obetrol was being used occasionally
to treat what was at the time of course known as ADD.
And he's like, "ADD, all, Adderall."
That's where the name came from.
One of the interesting phenomenas for me is listening to experts
who were on the ground floor of this.
People like Keith Conners,
now having major questions and regrets about the outcomes of what they had done.
The medicalizing of everyday life,
that everybody could potentially have a disorder,
ultimately trivializes the entire process,
and also puts the whole society in the hands of doctors and Big Pharma.
[interviewer] Would you include yourself as being in the ADHD business?
Or having been at one point?
I think I was in the ADHD business,
and I wasn't really cognizant of how much I was in that business.
Uh, there are big bucks waiting for doctors
who file patients through quickly and give them prescriptions
without knowing what the down effects are going to be.
Some of which are good, but some of which are quite bad.
The United States also is one of only two developed nations
that allows the direct to consumer advertising
of controlled substances.
So when it came to ADHD drugs,
it wasn't just for children who are hyperactive,
who can't concentrate in school.
What they wanted to do is make the mothers more comfortable.
"Oh, my goodness, my kid now takes out the garbage!
What a wonderful world, thanks to Adderall XR."
Every mother is going to be seduced by an ad
that appears to promise better grades in a pill
and better grades in a diagnosis.
It was grotesque what these companies did in the pursuit of profit.
[Hebert] Give it up. Hey, man, thank y'all for coming out.
Good to see you. You all right? Good to see you.
My name is Dr. Corey Hebert and I have a lot of stuff going on.
But I am a physician first.
I'm back. It's me, the doctor for the people.
You got to get rid of your stress. It's killing you.
Seeing patient to patient to patient to patient,
at the end of the day, I've changed 30 people's lives
and maybe their family.
But when I'm in the media, I'm talking to a million people at one time.
Dr. Corey Hebert is an ER physician at the LSU Health Sciences Center.
[Hebert] The way a child sees himself
and how a child learns to cope in the world,
along with his self-esteem and confidence,
is just as important to his success as his physical health,
because ADHD is a medical problem.
My brother. Good to see you. How you been?
-Good. -You're looking good.
I'm going to make my patients do well, and they're going to be successful
with all the tools that I have in my arsenal.
And that's the bottom line. I have to do that.
And I know some people say,
"Well, maybe you should not use medicines as much."
Well, come sit in my chair.
What you must do is make the correct diagnosis,
not over diagnose and not over medicate.
-Tell me how school's going. -It's going all right.
"All right"? What does that mean, "All right"?
Are you making A's, you making B's, you making C's?
[Sherry] The part I like, he don't talk to him as if he's his doctor.
He talks to him like he cares.
All the doctors we had, it's go in,
they check everything and write an appointment.
"We'll see you back here in four weeks."
But with Dr. Hebert, it's not like that.
What about side effects from the medicine?
You been feeling tired? Tell me what you've been feeling.
-No. -No.
Stomach ache, headache, anything like that?
-Headaches. Yeah. -You get headaches?
How often are you getting them?
He was diagnosed with ADD when he was six.
And I heard all the stigma,
how the medication make the children feel.
For two years, I went without giving him medication.
We tried therapy and everything, and nothing would work.
He actually had to repeat kindergarten.
Were you taking your medicine and then suddenly stopped taking it?
Yeah.
Come on, man, you're killing me. You're killing me.
When you started taking it again, you started to get headaches.
-Yeah. -Okay, I'm glad.
You got to tell me this stuff.
The first set of meds, I didn't like the way it had him at all.
Wouldn't talk, wouldn't eat, couldn't sleep.
He already don't say much anyways. So we got Adderall.
When he first started school, he was taking it every day
and he had 2.53,
and now his grades are dropping...
'cause he don't take his meds.
But he's at the age where I won't force him to take it,
'cause he knows the difference, and he's in high school.
If those are the consequences he want to deal with, that's on him.
But I don't like the effects of it sometimes, either.
Y'all good to go.
If a child has ADHD,
we'll do whatever it takes to get them to the next level.
Whether it be medicine, therapy or some other intervention.
But something must happen.
[Sherry] I was the first in my family to graduate from high school.
And I always tell my kids, "I don't want you to be like me.
I want you to be better than me.
So because I have a master's degree, then I want you to get a doctorate.
I want to be able to call you Dr. King."
-That's him right there. -[indistinct shouting]
That's my baby. [chuckles]
When he's not on his meds,
he reacts and does things without thinking about the consequences.
He knows that he should take them,
it's that he don't like the side effects to them.
He won't take it Friday and Saturday or Sunday.
If he takes it Monday, it slows him down completely,
almost to zombie state.
A lot of his friends don't have to deal with that.
So it makes him feel like he's not normal.
So he'd just rather not take it.
[interviewer] What was the research you were able to do about Adderall?
[Regina] I went to the doctor, we tried one medicine, it didn't work,
and then we tried this and I saw a difference immediately.
Come into my shop.
[Regina] Did I do research?
Shamefully, no.
[interviewer] But you were acting on the guidance of...
The psychologist, the doctor, I guess, his pediatrician.
I guess, the teachers at school.
My sister, whose kid was on Ritalin.
I don't know if I would have done it. Now, I google how to open a can.
I google everything.
But then, I don't know that I would even have thought to do that.
[Jasper] I got to school and I stopped taking it so much.
I only take it when I write, really.
This isn't pot and booze.
This is meth and it's screwing with your liver.
When I was in senior year, I wasn't allowed to drink or anything
because they were worried it was shutting down.
My blood work wasn't looking good. There was too many enzymes or something.
I had to constantly be looking at my poop to see what color it was.
If that's the case, then this isn't worth it.
So what do we know about the safety issues with stimulants?
There are cardiovascular risks.
There's also a risk of a psychotic episode,
even for people who don't have a history of psychosis.
There's a risk of addiction, long-term.
People can become dependent on these drugs,
and that's, you know, a horrible fate.
You wouldn't wish that on your worst enemy.
[Peter] Whether they realize it or not,
they're banking on the fact that we take Adderall.
The perfect employee at an investment bank
or the perfect employee at a tech firm is somebody that doesn't say no.
There is a culture of, "You do stay up 16 hours for seven days straight."
If the kid to your right and the kid to your left are producing these outputs,
then you should be able to produce them.
But if they are taking Adderall,
then you should probably be taking Adderall.
I was coming out of a particularly rough few weeks of work.
I was working with a notorious asshole on Wall Street.
He had another analyst and myself working around the clock.
And we were up for two and a half days doing Adderall.
We present all this work that we'd been doing to the managing director.
And he flips through it and immediately starts saying,
"Wait, this isn't what I asked for. I actually need this, this and this."
I turned to this guy in my impaired state, and I said,
"Fuck you. This is exactly what you asked for."
And so the next day, I go into work, keep my head down low,
and the associate comes over to me.
He goes, "Did you hear what happened last night?
About two or three hours after you left the office,
the other analyst that you'd been working with had a seizure from exhaustion,
and he's in the hospital right now."
I immediately go and call him.
He picks up the phone and I ask him how he is,
and he says, "My parents are trying to make me quit.
My parents think that enough is enough.
But can you send me this file? I'm being asked for it."
[Delaney] When I was in high school, everyone told me,
"You'll love college.
You'll finally be able to take classes that you enjoy."
I like business, but it doesn't feed my soul.
I take it because it's relevant.
Stimulants are generally gonna help people a lot before they hurt them.
They gave them to pilots in World War II.
It will give you something that you want in the short term,
and so then you're primed that a pill is going to give me what I want.
"That medicine helped me study,
and I did much better than I would have without it.
I'm gonna do it again."
And then, "Now I can't sleep. Does anybody have anything for sleep?"
People need to understand that if you abuse the stimulants,
and young people do,
we've had many patients that is their drug of choice.
They tend to pair them with something that's a downer, like alcohol.
It's easy to have an alcohol overdose if you're on stimulants
because you'll be able to drink a lot more,
and then the stimulants wear off and you're in a blackout.
People use it for work, and so they think it's okay.
I have friends that have gotten to the point
where they can't really do work without taking Adderall.
You get used to it, and then you can't do work without it.
You can't be productive. I've seen that happen to people.
Most people can use amphetamine without becoming addicted.
But ultimately, too large a group of people become addicted,
so it becomes unacceptable for the society to put this much speed out there.
And we're absolutely in one of those growing waves right now.
Those of us on the front line have been feeling this for about eight to ten years.
And right at the moment,
the doctor-prescribed opiate abuse epidemic is taking center stage,
but I'm telling you, Adderall is right below
the threshold of the opiates.
[interviewer] Did you start to attribute success to the Adderall?
I really struggled with not, "Am I cheating?"
But, "Is this really me anymore?"
Should I still feel as good about accomplishing something
knowing that I took Adderall and that really helped me
focus on getting it done,
rather than struggling through my pain or exhaustion.
Especially after I started getting these injuries.
Dislocated shoulder, herniated disk in my back,
L5-S1, torn MCL, torn hamstrings, torn quads, had my bell rung.
Adderall helped lift me out of that.
The problem was, that really productive feeling,
and feeling like I'd conquered the world that day,
it would fall off into this black spiral, into a depression, and into...
It was a crash.
I'd start crashing off of it, so then I'd take more.
A 70 milligram time release in the morning
and then supplementing a couple 20 milligrams
in there throughout the day.
That crash doesn't really go away when you take more.
You spike up and then you're dipping back down into the crash.
It would be an exhaustion thing.
Like, you're running, but your body isn't going anywhere.
You start to float away from yourself in a way.
[Blue] If you're feeling depressed and you stop taking Adderall,
it can lead to the depression more.
That might just be me.
Sometimes when you're not on it,
it's easy to get into your head and just get lost in that space.
[Leigh] It bums me out to know I didn't do it myself.
Me and the Adderall did it.
It's definitely a competition with yourself.
[Jasper] It was definitely an identity crisis, coming off of it.
I will say, me being on it and me being off of it
is like two completely different people.
Like, very different people.
[player 1] Red three!
[player 2] Halfway home.
[Eben] Because it's an amphetamine and it speeds up your metabolism,
it dries you out, it dehydrates your muscles and tissue,
so you become more prone to injury.
So that became a real challenge as well,
staying hydrated through the use.
I really believed he had ADD.
It seemed like his was a medical issue that was being treated.
Whereas any time I had used Adderall to study
or anyone I knew had used Adderall to study,
I looked at it as basically, abuse. Substance abuse.
But I didn't look at it that way until later,
when I realized how much he was taking.
And then, when I started to also feel like his sleep was being affected
and he was maybe using other substances to help him sleep,
I started thinking, "That's not a great cycle."
[Eben] My prescription for Adderall and Vyvanse had run out.
And on a day I didn't have it, I took a Ritalin.
They both treat ADD/ADHD.
That's what I have a therapeutic use exemption for Adderall for.
"It'll be the same thing. It should be fine."
So of course the day I took the Ritalin, I took a drug test, failed it.
They viewed it as two different compounds, completely.
And I was hit with a four-game suspension.
[George Stephanopoulos] This morning, America's golden girl targeted.
[announcer] She's just got so much power.
[Stephanopoulos] The leaked documents reveal
19-year-old Biles tested positive for methylphenidate.
[reporter] Simone was upfront about taking the drugs
and was given a therapeutic use exemption for the medication she takes.
[Stephanopoulos] And one other decorated Olympian has grappled with ADHD, Michael Phelps.
But some people are now asking
if those drugs gave her an unfair leg-up at the Olympics.
[Hinshaw] We've arrived at the land of controversy.
Should everybody get SAT tutors?
That's enhancing performance, but only certain families can afford it.
Should everybody drink coffee?
This goes way beyond psychiatry or clinical psychology.
It goes way beyond mental health.
What's a level playing field?
Stimulants and ADHD are in the middle of that playing field.
If we play our cards right,
we're going to have to bring ADHD, mental health stigma,
the use of medications out in the open, and have a debate
about what kind of performance enhancement we should allow
and what we value and don't value in our society.
[Nathanael] Your experience changes a lot, as you spend time on a medication.
Initially, it was definitely jet fuel. I didn't need much at all.
I'd take five or ten milligrams a day and be fine.
There was a lot of optimism, and a lot of almost obsession with getting things done,
but it was so fun. And that's not really true anymore.
So now I take 40 a day.
I do things to make that stronger, as well.
I get up in the morning,
and I have a milky, like, protein shake, which is a base.
If I were to have a glass of orange juice,
that would be very acidic,
and it would destroy a lot of the Adderall before I absorbed it.
Brain-hacking is a subset of the larger biohacking sphere.
Which is, "I wanna biohack myself and run a mile faster."
Probably the film Limitless
has done more than anything else to make the public think,
"This is a thing. There are drugs that can make a person smarter."
Like, "Information is pouring into my head like Neo in The Matrix."
I know kung fu.
For the last ten years,
there's been a lot of discussion about cognitive enhancement.
A lot of the discussion has been about the ethics of it.
Is it cheating?
Or the safety of it.
But everybody seemed to be assuming that,
of course, it would enhance your cognition.
So we decided to test and find out.
In some very interesting data
from Martha Farah at University of Pennsylvania's lab,
some of the initial trials had been done
of college students without any sign of ADHD
taking either stimulants or placebo
and every week, getting measures, tests of learning.
It was across a huge battery of different tasks.
In the end, we found no significant difference
between Adderall and placebo,
except for one question.
"Do you feel that the pill you took today enhanced your cognition?"
[Hinshaw] So one of the conclusions may be that stimulants are very good at boosting
your false self-confidence and how well you're learning.
People think of amphetamines being smart pills. They're not.
They certainly can help you stay awake when you should be asleep,
can help you endure a boring task a lot longer.
But it doesn't add anything new or cognition.
The single, most universal effect that amphetamine, Adderall,
has on anyone who takes it, is a feeling that they're doing better.
That's not a small effect, because the feeling of doing better at something
improves your motivation and confidence in doing it.
If you feel good about yourself
and you feel more driven to do what you wanna do,
one could argue that that's an enhancement,
even if it's not actually increasing your IQ in a very concrete sense.
[Lawler] Often, Adderall is an entry point for people
into finding out that cognitive enhancers are a thing.
As a millennial male that went to a great college,
worked at private equity funds and hedge funds,
it's impossible to avoid stimulants.
Stimulant abuse.
Because our definition of medication has changed.
It used to be getting over an illness
versus taking advantage of a loophole to acquire a Schedule II drug.
We had some friends who were on Adderall for off-label uses
and they weren't getting good results.
They thought that they needed it to be successful.
We didn't want that,
so we started looking at alternatives that were over the counter,
without needing to go pretend to have ADHD.
I just got this vision of a very simple page.
Just three elements.
A question, a "Yes" button, and "No, thank you, I'm satisfied."
We can ask, "Do you want great sleep?"
"Yes" or "No, thanks, I'm satisfied."
If they hit "No," it moves on to, "Do you want more focus?"
If they hit "Yes," they go straight to the OptiMind LP.
How can I help you today?
[man on speaker] What if your brain could do more? It can.
Sometimes people put us in the same boat as prescription stimulants,
and I hate that because we're not.
We're meant to help healthy people achieve their purpose.
I don't have ADHD.
I'm a healthy person looking for things that can help make me
the optimal and ultimate version of me that I have in my mind.
I think internally,
everybody is looking for that ultimate next version of themselves.
We started AlternaScript taking ingredients that had been studied
by the top neuroscience institutes in the world,
and saying, "Do any of these actually work?"
And then things started to take off.
One day, all of a sudden, we're on the front page of VICE News
about how cognitive enhancement pills are going commercial.
This research is out there.
And now it's just up to entrepreneurs to put it all together into something
that people can take every day.
[man on speaker] The mind is a beautiful thing. Unleash yours.
Matt, anything you'd add?
You said excited and dedicated.
I'd just do one more take of that first phrase.
And maybe try picking one or the other
just to drive straight through to the point.
-What about excitacated? -"Excitacated"?
-Sounds like a new prescription. -[laughs]
Cognitive enhancement is not going away.
It's the future of the human species.
All of this is inevitable.
The nootropics movement with microdosing,
with using things like modafinil,
people are taking steps to get to that next level,
whether it's physically or cognitively.
In parts of Silicon Valley now, people are very interested in micro doses
of LSD and psilocybin for enhancement purposes.
And in a culture in which innovation is given such a high priority,
I can imagine ways in which that might play into
the idea of having a more expansive view of things
at the same time that you can get some of the benefits of focus.
[Lily] It's not like a glass of wine or a joint, or any way that people use to decompress.
or any way that people use to decompress.
I really see it as a supplement, as a tool.
So I microdose every four days.
I grind the mushrooms into a powder,
and I put them in capsules
that measure out to 0.2 grams.
Microdose is about a tenth to a twentieth
of a conventional dose of a psychedelic substance.
That includes the classic psychedelics,
LSD, psilocybin, mushrooms, mescaline, peyote.
You can expect zero psychedelic effects.
The rocks don't glitter even a little,
the flowers have no great interest in you personally.
In fact, if you have anything like that, that's too high a dose.
[Lily] In college, I got Adderall from other kids.
I didn't fill my own prescription.
After college, I felt this mounting pressure from work
to start using my prescription again,
and it was 90 milligrams a day.
The mentality around here is it should have been done yesterday,
and move fast, break things.
I hate that phrase, but that's something everybody uses.
You shouldn't be 28 and 29 and talking about
significant burnout and breakdowns.
Are there better, safer, simpler,
less physiologically disruptive substances,
and that have better side effects?
The substance has never any side effects. They're all effects.
It's just which ones you wanna...
If you're selling, you go for one set of effects.
If you're looking at helping people who are being tortured
by their pharmaceutical, you look at other effects.
[Lily] When you take Adderall, there's a sense of urgency
to get through things as quickly as possible,
but this is, you're comfortable with taking your time,
and you realize that you can take your time to execute properly.
The clue came to me some years ago, where I learned that Albert Hofmann,
who was the man who first synthesized LSD
said that this very low dose area was incredibly under-researched.
And he said, had Sandoz, his company, been more active,
there would have not been a market for Ritalin.
[Lily] But instead, we have this really highly addictive substance
that is a moneymaker for companies and doctors.
LSD and mushrooms aren't that.
When I count to four, you do it. One, two, three, four.
[woman on TV] Starts now on Disney Junior.
I got it.
What? What was that face for?
I haven't had any urge to take Adderall since my career ended, really.
My mindset is totally different.
I used to need that energy and that mental chaos. [chuckles]
[woman on speaker] It's easy to forget that on the most basic level,
we are alive and breathing. We may have problems...
[Eben] Now, meditation has helped tremendously with my focus, my mental clarity.
So, of course, I have days where I'm like, "Fuck, man. I was in the NFL."
As a rookie coming into the League, people are telling you,
"You're not gonna be a football player forever.
The NFL, it stands for 'Not For Long.'"
But you're a 21-year-old kid who's just realized his dream.
All that shit's going right over your fucking head.
I really took it as far as I could.
I gave everything I had
until the day came when I just couldn't do it anymore.
[Brit] The moment Eben was ready to retire,
I said, "What are you going to write? Start writing."
[Eben] Sometime in high school,
I fell in love with the idea of becoming a writer.
I started reading Bret Easton Ellis, Less Than Zero.
I just felt in my gut, I was like, "Creative writing's for me."
So, as my career came to an end,
my wife really encouraged me
to take these stacks of journals I had
of writing from my experience in the league.
"Riding lightning, that's the best way I can describe taking Adderall.
I took two that Monday night before kickoff."
It's really exciting to be able to be on the verge of figuring out
who am I gonna be in this life after football.
-Hey, my baby. -[Rahiem] Yes, Mother.
Don't text me, "I'm at the game, Ma." You answer the phone when I call you.
I show him this picture all the time.
I'm like, "See, this is what happens when you don't take your medication."
He kept getting into physical altercations with another student at the school,
and Rahiem's nose got broken.
I actually had to press charges against the other kid.
And I felt like I could no longer handle him,
so I allowed him to go live with his father in New Jersey.
That's his oldest brother. He's 18.
There was plenty of incidents. And the day he turned 15, he stole my car.
[interviewer] To do what?
He just stole my car.
I went to go look for my car, and it was gone.
Parents are crying. By the time they get to the doctor,
they're crying, they're hurting.
They don't know what to do
with these little people when they act like that.
[Sherry] There's so much negativity going around,
saying that if a kid does this too much, if a kid does that too much,
a doctor automatically wants to say that they're ADD or ADHD
to just give them medication.
Me being a parent that actually has a child with it,
and I can tell the difference between Rahiem and my oldest son.
And as a parent, sometimes it's disheartening because...
you feel like you're not doing everything that you can do for your kids.
I still try and encourage him from here.
I ask him every day I talk to him,
"Did you take you take your meds?" And he goes, "Yes, Mom, I took my meds."
But... I'm hoping this is a good move.
'Cause I'm missing him like crazy. [chuckles]
[Regina] I don't think he'd have gotten through high school without Adderall.
He would have gotten through,
but I can't say that he would be where he is,
to be honest, if he wasn't on it.
As much as I think he's very angry at me for putting him on the Adderall,
I think that he appreciates me being the heavy,
because if I wasn't, you know...
where would we all be?
[Nathanael] I was very fortunate.
I started this process on New Year's, 2016, and said,
"Erin," my girlfriend, "I think I'm going to do a boot camp."
And then I did all of the things that I had to do
to make that happen.
One of those things was getting on Adderall.
I pretty much got everything I wanted.
The pay's great, and a recruiter from Google approached me.
And that's crazy. For me, that's crazy.
There's no way any of that would have been possible
without the medication.
That might be because I have really severe ADHD,
and have a hard time performing in the ways needed.
It might be because it was jet fuel and it got me where I needed to go.
I don't try to draw a line between those.
[interviewer] Have you tried any of the stimulants yourself?
One time, in that first Ritalin study.
It was sort of late afternoon.
I felt like it was such an enhancement of my day.
So, yes, you know, it was a good experience,
and thank goodness I did not decide to dip into that barrel ever again.
[interviewer] Did you get your grades back already?
I got one grade back from the exam I took this morning at 10:00.
And I got an A.
The stress really doesn't ever leave entirely.
But I'm excited, once I graduate, to be able to leave that at work.
I have a pretty good feeling
that this will be the end of my relationship with Adderall.
Hopefully, in the adult world, I'll manage my time well enough
that there won't be a time where I need to take prescription drugs,
to get my work done.
Hopefully, it's the end.
I don't know where I will be, but when I picture it,
I don't picture myself taking Adderall.
[Blue] The purpose of Adderall for me is to focus on work.
If I can get to a place where work is running itself
and things are okay, then I don't need it.
If I hit for $200 million dollars tomorrow,
I'd never take Adderall again.
But then I need my Adderall to remember to play,
'cause I keep forgetting to play the lottery. [chuckles]
[Ariana] I'm just so much more boring when I'm on my medication.
Also angrier.
But yesterday, I had to study all day, so I was on Vyvanse,
and I took an Adderall, and I was wired the whole time.
[chuckles] Felt like shit, but I got my work done.
So, it's just this balance you have to figure out.
[Delaney] I'm just getting a little disillusioned with this higher education thing.
You need a bachelor's degree to be anybody.
And we're all high on ADD meds as a group of 20-something-year-olds
just fighting each other for...
For what? To set the curve in a class?
[Schwarz] What you have here is a dynamic
of not only people using what is a dangerous drug,
particularly when used improperly.
But you also find a bit of an arms race building up
where if enough people see that their competition is doing it,
they feel like they kind of have to do it, too.
[Chatterjee] I think focusing on the use, or abuse, depending on how people feel about this,
is symptomatic of something broader.
This highly competitive environment
in which people feel compelled
to compete beyond their possibilities to get ahead.
This kind of focus
on material progress and productivity...
What's the cost of that?
And is that a cost we're willing to live with?
[Sherry] I wouldn't say that I'm happy to have Adderall,
but I'm happy that Adderall is an option for him.
[Jasper] After not being on it all the time,
I feel more comfortable with who I am, with my body and stuff.
I would never put my kid on Adderall, ever,
'cause I know what it does to you,
and it's not fun being on it.
I feel like it was too easy to put
a kid on something close to meth and not question it.
There's other things you can do. Just teach him how to focus.
It was about being the best.
The NFL is a symbol of that level, really.
[interviewer] Do you wish that you had not taken that Ritalin?
No. I mean, I was doing what I had to do,
and I'm happy to be on this next chapter of my life.
It's never so bad that you can't climb out of the hole.
[Brown] Adderall, the drug of our time.
I suppose the question of what's lost if we all were in an Adderall world,
is the question, "What is it all for?"
I just lost my thought. Hang on one second.
I had it. I had an example.
What we also might say is lost is what human beings do
when they muse and when they reflect
and when their thoughts wander.
I know what I'll do. Okay.
And out of that comes, what?
Creativity, art,
extraordinary moments of human connection.
...blessed our world and its people.
But in time the promise of its power brought war to our lands.
Lucis, a peaceful kingdom of great magic kept safe by the power of the crystal.
And Niflheim, a military empire of vast machinery...
...made strong by the might of its Magitek.
Long has war raged between the two.
As the years passed, Niflheim marched on nearby nations...
...driven by its unsurpassed technology.
To defend itself, Lucis raised a magical wall...
...the strength of which comes from the crystal itself.
Insomnia alone, the crown city and last bastion of Lucian defense...
...remained beyond Niflheim reach for many years.
Amid the escalating war...
...Prince Noctis of Lucis had come to Tenebrae...
...to seek healing for a grievous injury.
He made the long journey together with his father, King Regis.
Mother, brother, and I, the royalty of Tenebrae...
...had all welcomed their visit.
It was then that the fires came, everywhere and all at once.
In a mere instant, the whole of Tenebrae was ablaze.
Ravus!
Mother!
General Glauca.
The Niflheim attack was an attempt on the lives of the visiting Lucian royalty.
Noctis!
Please. Help us!
King Regis!
Lunafreya....
Luna!
From that day until this day...
...Tenebrae has been gripped in the iron fist of Niflheim...
...sworn enemy of Lucis.
King Regis assembles a force of mighty warriors to combat the imperial menace.
Dubbed the Kingsglaive, they fight relentlessly against Niflheim...
...empowered by the magic of their sovereign.
All units, move to secure the Wall.
If they break through, we're done.
What's the hold-up, Crowe?
Crowe! Status?
Almost there.
No!
I need help. East wall's going down. Pelna, can you get to me?
Lucis isn't paying us refugees enough...
...for this.
How is this fair?
Nyx, I owe you one.
You and everyone else.
We need support on the east flank. Nyx, where are you?
I'm on my way.
Pelna, fall back and regroup with the others.
Go easy on the magic, hero.
You got people waiting for you back home.
I'm worth the wait.
Show-off.
Watch your back, Libertus. We got more incoming.
We ain't gonna last much longer.
Crowe!
Yes!
All Glaives, fall back. Repeat, all Glaives fall back!
Release the daemon.
We can't take down that daemon. I'm ordering a full retreat.
Get back here alive. That's an order.
For hearth and home.
All units, fall back to the extraction point. Support is inbound.
Nyx! We have to get out of here.
-Nyx! We have orders! -Yeah.
Help!
Nyx!
That idiot.
Nyx!
Crowe. We gotta move.
You gotta be kidding me.
You know I ain't got the stomach for this crap.
Would you rather walk?
Come on. Just like Galahd Canyon back home.
Libertus!
Luche, report.
The imperial forces look to be withdrawing, sir.
Guess I owe you another one.
I'll put it on your tab.
You just try and get some rest, all right?
You disobeyed a direct order to retreat.
For hearth and home, right, sir?
As long as I got strength in my body, I obey that order.
Don't fool yourself, Nyx Ulric.
Whatever strength you have is on loan from the king.
You are nothing without him.
Await details of your reassignment.
Yes, Your Majesty.
Despite their victory all but assured.
A sudden and inexplicable retreat.
We are at risk nonetheless, Your Majesty.
We cannot know when they will strike again.
Your Majesty, word from the West Gate.
A man claiming to be an envoy of the empire requests an audience.
The envoy from Niflheim awaits without, Your Majesty.
Hello there.
Hello!
Good day to you...
...and you.
Well met, my dear Lucians.
Has Niflheim grown so bold...
...that they send the chancellor himself as envoy?
And under no guard, at that?
It is an honor to be recognized by the great King Regis.
Yet permit me to stand on ceremony and introduce myself nonetheless.
Ardyn Izunia, Chancellor of Niflheim...
...at your humble service.
And I come to you on this...
...most auspicious of days to offer terms of peace.
Peace?
As you no doubt surmised...
...that recent maneuver of ours was no strategic retreat.
Call it...
...a gesture of imperial goodwill.
Like you, we wish nothing more...
...than to bring a swift end to this senseless war.
Is that so?
It is, indeed.
And we require but a singular compliance.
Save your grand Insomnia here.
Lucis must forfeit all territories to Niflheim rule.
Insomnia!
The jewel in the crown of the Lucian kingdom.
How foolish of me to forget.
There is just one more trivial thing.
It concerns your son.
The fetching Prince Noctis of Lucis...
...and the fair Princess Lunafreya of Tenebrae....
They are to be wed.
You seem vexed, Your Highness.
I assure you, the princess still holds you in the highest regard...
...as she has done all these 12 long years.
Don't know if anyone's told you...
...but we don't take kindly to insubordination around here.
Do yourself a favor, take a look around.
This is what a hundred years of peace looks like.
It's a lasting peace made by the Wall and the Wall alone.
See, we don't need any of you immigrants...
...jumping around, playing war hero.
Hey! Rough day on the gate, huh, Glaive?
You jerk. It's your fault he got stuck there.
-Not a very nice welcome for a big hero. -Not a very nice outfit for one, either.
I think it brings out my eyes.
What'd you put in this?
Tastes like a chocobo turd.
Hey, shut your trap!
This ain't Galahd. That's the way folks around here like it.
Oh, well. I'm glad to see you're willing to sell out our heritage for a few extra gil.
Hey, Libertus. You thank Nyx for saving your life yet?
Oh, come on, Crowe. Nyx and I are too close for that.
He helps me, I help him. That's the way it's always been.
Looks like you got a little help from something else, huh?
I need all I can get.
For hearth!
-And home. -And home.
So, Nyx the Gatekeeper. How's the new post treating you?
Oh, it's amazing. You guys would love it.
The gate watch are real sweethearts.
Yeah, right.
We all know they hate us outsiders more than anything.
So bored they got nothing better to do.
Boredom's not so bad.
Means there's peace, at least.
I'd fight a hundred more wars for Galahdans to know boredom.
Fight all you want.
Just don't go dying yet.
I still owe you.
A lot.
Where would the Glaive be without its hero?
Can you not talk like this while we're drinking, please?
We just sent the Niffs running with tails between their legs, right?
They weren't running from us. No, they were toying with us.
Stop being such a buzzkill, Luche. We all know what happened.
Did you know they sent an envoy to the Citadel after that?
What for? To offer their surrender?
-More like demand ours. -What?
Demand? My ass!
No? Think about it.
The empire's got Lucis on its last legs.
It's the perfect time to make demands.
We are losing this war, Your Majesty.
Lucis cannot rely on the Kingsglaive alone.
Accepting the truce may be our best course of action.
You speak of matters beyond the New Wall.
We have no need of a truce here, so long as it stands.
And if our position worsens, we still have the Old Wall.
Yes, but this truce will end the fighting altogether.
If only we could compromise--
Compromise is unwise.
We know nothing of Niflheim's true intentions.
Do not fool yourselves. The Walls are far from impenetrable.
The paths left to us are few.
The New Wall draws its power from the throne.
I am able to sustain it for some years yet, if the kingdom requires it.
But the chancellor spoke one truth, if only one.
We are old, and the Old Wall....
I cannot command the Old Wall with a weakened hand...
...nor do I have the strength to muster an offensive to turn the tide on this war.
Then let the choice be made, Your Majesty.
What are we to protect?
Help Mother!
How come you never lose your lunch like that?
Just doesn't add up.
Here's this ancient art, secret of the royal family and all that.
Libertus! Nyx!
Come here, guys, you gotta see this.
Things were hectic in the capital today...
...as the Lucian government announced full acceptance...
...of what some are criticizing as the unilateral peace terms...
...proposed by Chancellor Izunia of Niflheim.
The signing of the truce will see power over all Lucian territories...
...transferred to the empire, with the sole exception of Insomnia.
In return, Niflheim guarantees the safety of Insomnia and its citizenry...
...as well as a cessation to all hostilities...
...bringing a decisive end to this long and bitter war.
All that fighting we did. All for nothing.
Glaives. Assemble in the briefing room.
Now.
The king has spoken, and you have heard.
All lands beyond the Wall are to be relinquished to the empire.
Will no regions be spared?
-None. -But your home's out there too!
It is.
Why would the king do this?
Because it'll end this damn war.
-Crowe. -Sir!
Prepare to deploy. You're being sent to infiltrate Tenebrae.
Tenebrae, sir?
Mission details are classified.
Report to my office for briefing in 30 minutes.
And, Nyx....
You're off the West Gate.
You've been reassigned to the castle guard.
That is all.
So this is what you were talking about, Luche?
You heard the captain.
-This wasn't our decision to make. -Not ours to make?
Those are our homes out there! Our people!
You're just gonna go along and abandon them?
If we don't go along with them...
...the empire will unleash all hell on Insomnia.
-We'll unleash it right back at them! -Easy, easy.
He's not the enemy.
Don't you get it?
We're nothing to them.
Rats, snuck in from beyond the Wall.
Sure, they had a use for us...
...when they realized we could work their magic.
So they handpicked us from all the other rats out there...
...and just let us nibble away at his royal majesty's precious power.
But as soon as this war's all over...
...it's back to the sewers for all of us.
That means you too, hero.
You missing home so much, Libertus, why don't you and Nyx head on back?
I'm sure Niflheim will welcome you with open arms.
You've got a home out there too.
Or did you forget?
Damn it!
I'm not gonna let it end like this.
It is said sentiment amongst the people is favorable, Your Majesty.
Most all will welcome this peace.
If you yourself have not heard their voices...
...how can you claim to know their hearts?
What of the mission to Tenebrae, Your Majesty?
Is such clandestine action wise?
If discovered, it will only serve to provoke the empire.
The empire remains our enemy until the treaty is signed.
So long as we are at war...
...His Majesty intends to remain one step ahead of them.
Of course.
A hairpin? I didn't think you were into that kind of thing.
It's not for me. It's a gift for the princess.
But keep that quiet. Nobody's supposed to know.
Well, that's me.
Watch your back out there.
I know you're sick of hearing it, but you're like a little--
Little sister to you. Yeah, I am sick of hearing it.
Just make sure you come back in one piece, all right?
Says the guy in two pieces.
Lady Lunafreya, I have left the rear gate open.
Thank you.
Must you go?
Yes.
Then go quickly.
I do not recall granting you permission to leave your quarters, Lunafreya.
Ravus.
You are not to leave this room again until the journey to Lucis.
It is for your own good.
My own good?
What is truly going on here?
What cause does the empire have to see me wed to Noctis?
They have offered a peace, and your marriage is the olive branch.
You expect me to believe that?
What you believe does not concern me.
What does concern me is you sneaking off...
...to go tell our mother's killer about some plot you've dreamt up.
You are wrong to hate King Regis.
Niflheim killed Mother, not him.
They murdered her and made you their lapdog.
It's done.
An air of jubilation has swept the city in anticipation of the coming armistice.
With only three days remaining until the peace is officially signed into effect...
...throngs of citizens have taken to the streets to show....
Lucis needs your strength, young warriors.
We don't need any of you immigrants.
Whatever strength you have is on loan from the king.
-You are nothing without him. -Nyx, help Mother.
Selena, get down.
--and the waves of imperial diplomats entering the city.
The princess? Are you certain?
Yes, Your Majesty.
She was amongst the last of the imperial contingent to enter the city.
Get in.
I'm reporting to my post now though, sir.
New orders.
Come on. We've got a princess to pick up.
Nice ride, sir.
It belongs to the prince.
We've taken him outside the city.
Doesn't he have a wedding to plan, sir?
Cut the "sir" crap.
The king has a plan of his own.
Prince Noctis and Princess Lunafreya are to meet far from Insomnia.
What's she doing here then?
Complicating things.
We sent Crowe to find the princess and escort her out of Tenebrae.
We're still trying to figure out what went wrong.
So I know what you think about this war, but what do you think about this peace?
You happy giving up your home?
It's the king's decision. I owe him for taking me in.
I was lucky. There are people in Galahd who weren't.
And they need me.
So you're going back?
What good will you be without the king's magic?
Yeah, always wanting to save somebody.
I get it. Believe me. But it doesn't win wars.
It's not just wanting.
It's not just me.
Libertus is the one you need to worry about.
He'll go back if things gets worse.
The worst is yet to come.
Do you have any idea who you're stopping?
Open this gate now, and maybe you'll have a job tomorrow.
-King's orders. -Are you sure you want to risk...
...a diplomatic issue now, of all times?
I am the personal escort of Lady Lunafreya Nox Fleuret...
...princess of the former Tenebrae and--
And our kingdom's beloved bride-to-be.
Welcome to sovereign jurisdiction. We'll take care of things from here.
-Forgive me, Captain Drautos. -See Her Highness to the castle.
I had no idea that you-- I wasn't made aware of any--
-Excuse me. Thank you. -No, you-- I must--
I must-- No, I have to clear it with my superiors first.
Your Highness.
Her Royal Highness, Princess Lunafreya of Tenebrae.
It has been a long time, Your Majesty.
Yes.
Far too long.
Prince Noctis isn't here, is he?
No, my dear. He is not.
I am too old to fight this war.
I have no choice but to receive the empire and accept their treaty.
Even so...
...I had hoped to hold the wedding elsewhere, somewhere safe.
I sent one of my Glaive to see you there, but--
It is not too late.
I can ready an escort.
Please, go to my son.
No.
Wherever I go, the empire will follow.
It would only place the prince in greater danger.
It is my duty to protect the prince and see his destiny fulfilled.
These 12 years have not changed that.
And what of your destiny?
My duty is my destiny, Your Majesty.
I'm prepared to accept whatever may come to pass.
So, what do you think?
All these lands will be imperial soon.
Reckon things will get better when them Niffs start calling the shots?
Not one damn bit.
Don't matter who's calling the shots.
Long as they're calling them from behind the Wall...
...ain't nothing gonna change around here.
Get over here.
All right.
That's a hand!
I trust the reunion was a happy one?
Has she been a hostage of Niflheim all this time?
She is a symbol of the peace. That's all I'm told.
Doesn't sound like it.
Sounds like she's here for something much bigger than that.
Your orders are to protect her.
Not to look, not to listen, not to think.
Understood?
Drautos.
Yes, report.
Get the hell out of my way. That's my friend you got in there, damn it.
Sir, you can't go in until the examination has ended.
What examination? What the hell's going on?
Hey, take it easy, big guy.
These bastards rushed Crowe in there the moment she got back.
And now they won't let me in to see her.
Wait.
Crowe's personal effects.
Do with them as you see fit.
So, what kind of mission did you really send her on?
No Glaive winds up dead on a standard escort.
I'll see the armistice does not interfere with a full investigation.
She was a good soldier.
Her death will not go unanswered.
What a life, huh?
She was brought up an orphan.
Run out of her village.
I still remember the first time I saw her.
Scrawny little thing...
...all covered in dirt.
Not a friend in the world.
But those eyes....
Damn.
There was something about those eyes.
She deserved better.
And I would've done anything to give it to--
Libertus, wait.
Crowe died a Glaive.
You can still honor her by fighting as one.
You're dumber than me sometimes, you know that?
Don't you get it?
Lucis killed Crowe.
Go back to the castle.
Tell the king there's no peace to be had from throwing the weak to the wolves.
I'll fight my own fight from here on out.
See you around, hero.
A hairpin?
I didn't think you were into that kind of thing.
It's not for me. It's a gift for the princess.
A most grand reception, King Regis.
You honor all of Niflheim.
Oh, the honor is ours, Emperor Aldercapt.
You have ventured far to grace us with your presence.
It was the very least I could do.
Tomorrow will be an historic day for both our nations.
And your Insomnia is truly a marvel.
My own cities pale in comparison.
I pray we are able to take away much from this visit.
Hello.
I am afraid we were never properly introduced yesterday.
I'm afraid it's going to have to wait, Your Highness. I'm on guard duty.
Then surely there's no safer place for me to be.
May I ask your name?
Nyx. Nyx Ulric.
There is something else I wish to ask you, Nyx Ulric.
King Regis said he sent one of your order to come find me.
I should like to offer my thanks in person.
Where might I find this brave soldier?
Oh, I did not--
-I am so sorry. -Don't be.
Here.
She was carrying this.
It was meant for you.
For me?
Keep it.
She would've wanted you to have it.
I will carry it with me always.
Thank you.
Do you have any idea what this peace means?
It means our homes are gone...
...all of them...
...forever.
Heard I could find some treaty haters here.
I come to the right place?
You certainly have.
Everyone say hello to a man who spends his days...
...in the loyal service of our good king.
"Spent."
Those days are over.
I'm done listening to that bastard's lies.
He may sit on a throne, but he ain't no king...
...least not of mine.
Well, then...
...welcome to the resistance, brother.
I hope you're here to talk.
What do you wanna know?
Please...
...wherever Noctis is, keep him safe.
That is all I ask.
To what god do you pray?
You, the slave of fate and destiny.
Abandon your prayers.
The gods do not listen.
General Glauca. Why are you here?
You are far too clever to have ever believed in this peace.
Pity you couldn't see your beloved Noctis. You have another purpose.
-I'm not here for Niflheim. -No.
You are here for me.
You?
I do not understand.
Come tomorrow, you will.
Niflheim contingent has left the hotel.
Less than three hours until the ceremony.
Bolster the Citadel guard.
Nyx, is the princess with you?
No.
I'm on duty at the Citadel.
Well, the Niffs just left for the ceremony.
And she wasn't with them.
-A homing beacon? -Yeah, I'll send the coordinates now.
Can you pinpoint a location for me?
Sure, but it sounds like a wild-goose chase.
Guess you got some free time on your hands, huh?
Guess I do, for better or worse.
Those coordinates are about 20 miles south of Insomnia.
Outside the Wall.
What the hell was Crowe doing all the way out there?
No, no. They sent her to--
I need another favor, Pelna.
Pull those coordinates up on the radar and let me know what you find.
On it. You're thinking this is all a big deal now, huh?
Yeah, too big to ignore.
-Excuse me, sir. Excuse me. -Hey, hey, hey.
-Whoa, wait a minute. -Stop right there.
Listen up. This is not the gate watch.
This is the heart of our city, the home of our king.
The ceremony must not be disturbed.
Neutralize any threat quickly and quietly.
Is that understood?
Yes, sir.
Glaive to command. Are you there, captain?
Urgent.
Damn it, Drautos.
Jackpot, Nyx. There's a whole fleet of airships sitting at that spot.
-Niflheim. -Yup, and from the looks of it...
...I'd say they're headed to war.
-Where's the captain? -Should be at the Citadel.
There's no answer on his frequency.
I don't know, must have his hands full with the escort detail.
Pelna, one last favor. I need you to prep the Glaive for action.
What are you talking about?
You wanna deploy without the captain's order?
Trust me. Just get it done.
Wait, what am I supposed to tell--?
Stand down, Glaive.
The ceremony is in less than two hours.
We must make ready.
Very well.
Your Majesty.
A man of the Kingsglaive is here, sire.
He demands an audience.
"Demands"?
-Your Majesty, please. -Halt.
Give the order to deploy the Glaive.
You.
A Niflheim fleet makes ready for war 20 miles to the south.
An imperial fleet.
And they have the princess.
Clarus, post guards outside the treaty room.
It will be seen as a lack of faith in the peace.
Which we all harbor.
See it done.
We may well have to take Emperor Aldercapt into custody.
Detain him?
That would go beyond a new declaration of war.
We are still at war, Clarus.
And you, Nyx Ulric.
How soon can the Kingsglaive deploy?
On your word, at once.
Go, then.
Save Luna.
What if this is a diversion?
Not likely.
Tenebrae's princess is onboard.
We've got two jobs.
Save her.
And stop those Niff ships from flying on Insomnia.
We go in teams.
Standard infiltrate and extract.
Nyx, you command. We'll follow.
The Glaive stands together, captain or no.
For hearth.
And home!
We are less than 20 minutes away from the signing of this historic treaty.
I received word of the king's order to deploy.
I'll see to matters in the city.
You have your mission, and it won't be easy.
The objective is two-fold.
Secure the hostage, and stay the enemy advance.
Just be careful.
One Glaive already died for this princess.
Niflheim won't give her up easily.
Team Two.
Oh, man.
Hurry up, Nyx!
Help!
Over here.
Preparing to head below deck.
Do not engage the enemy until instructed.
The ceremony is underway.
Let's wait and see how Niflheim plays this.
The Kingsglaive have infiltrated the ships.
So everything's going according to plan.
Ulric reporting. Six Niflheim airships confirmed inbound for Insomnia.
Nyx, this doesn't feel like a war fleet.
I think I might've found her. I got a guarded door here.
Two Niff MTs. What's the plan?
Hold position.
Arrived at destination. High possibility of target in the vicinity.
Proceed to secure.
It's going to mean a fight.
Keep it quiet and keep it confined.
Pelna, you're clear to engage. But keep it quiet.
I'm on my way.
Forgive my delay.
A bit of unforeseen trouble.
Nothing too vexing, I hope.
A simple theft, nothing more.
A daring thief, to steal from the king.
Perhaps magical walls and castle gates do not keep all things safe.
Perhaps.
But no matter. That which was taken will soon be returned.
Impressive.
You are a paragon of kingly composure.
But I must ask...
...how can you be so sure?
Because this thing is no mere trinket.
It possesses a will all its own.
Enough to break any thief's grasp.
That sounds a very fine prize indeed.
Not now, damn it.
For me? You shouldn't have.
Target confirmed. She's unharmed.
The Glaives have recovered the princess, Your Majesty.
Have you found your thief?
We have.
And what was stolen remains intact.
Joyous news.
I am relieved to hear it.
Tell me...
...how heavy a sentence...
...does the crime of theft carry in your empire?
Among the heaviest.
Although there is one...
...exception.
Things are about to get ugly over here.
Pelna, get out of there. It's a trap.
-What is that? -A curious old law...
...I still permit in the outlands.
A thief who escapes his captor...
...can no longer be held to account for his crime.
A warning to the victim.
Never show weakness, lest you forgo the hand of justice.
Oh, no, good king.
Far from it.
The treaty is now on the table.
The countdown begins to this historical moment.
It is a warning to the hand of justice itself...
...never to loose its grip.
Unit One, secure the perimeter.
Unit Two, stand your ground.
Pelna.
One Tenebrae princess, safe and--
Come on.
The crystal. They're after the crystal.
There's something going on below deck.
The ship's not going to make it to Insom--
You....
What's going on?
Insomnia is under attack.
Who brought you here?
-General Glauca. -You were bait.
Us coming here was all part of their plan.
Target secured. Request permission to withdraw.
Granted. Get to--
The crystal will not serve you.
Nor you...
...once I take it from this accursed city.
It's not the crystal I'm here for.
The Wall. It's gone.
Fall back. It's a trap.
What the hell is going on?
Traitors.
What's got into you?
Come, we must escape while we can.
No, Clarus.
I fear escape is no longer an option.
General Glauca.
Can you make it up? Can you stand?
Luche!
What are you doing?
You gotta be kidding me.
They teach piloting back at the royal academy?
Give me that.
Been a long time since I fought at your side, old friend.
Yes...
...but this time it is not your fight.
If you wish to leave, go now.
And abandon my king? I think not.
Besides, our magic is bound to you.
If you fall, Lucis falls.
Then let us once more into the fray...
...old friend.
You must take me back to King Regis.
Are you out of your mind? Insomnia's a war zone.
I have a duty. I cannot neglect it.
-Yeah, I heard all that before. -Then you know we must hurry.
Hurry to do what? Get yourself killed?
I do not fear death.
Enough with all this brave princess act.
Just pray this thing will make the trip.
Clarus.
Well, I daresay everything has proceeded according to plan.
-No? -So it has.
We have broken the Wall.
All that remains is to break the city.
Shall we take our leave, then?
The sun will soon set.
We need not be here to witness the terrors of the night.
The crystal.
You're going too fast. We have to land.
-You're gonna have to give me a minute. -There is no time. I will go on my own.
You got wings underneath that dress? You can't use magic.
Not all miracles are made by magic.
I do not fear death.
What I fear is doing nothing and losing everything.
Oh, come on.
You can thank magic for that miracle, Your Highness.
The reckoning is at hand.
Dawn of a new age.
You have the crystal. What more would you take from me?
The Ring of the Lucii.
I lost my mother, my country, my birth-right.
Niflheim was the only life left to me.
But all of that was for this.
The ring belongs to me now.
Hear me, Lucian kings of old, for I am Ravus Nox Fleuret...
...and none is more worthy of your power than I.
No. Why?
Why do you refuse me?
Look out.
Quickly, through here.
This leads to a hidden passageway.
Follow it.
Once you are away, make for Altissia.
Noctis awaits you there.
-Your Majesty. -You knew this was coming--
Yes. But it was the only way to draw their wrath from Noctis.
Is that the way of our king?
Sacrifice Lucian sons to save his own?
To save the world.
See Luna safely to Altissia.
This is not an order from a king to his Glaive.
This is a plea from one man to another. Please, Nyx Ulric, keep her safe.
For the future of all.
The future?
Here.
Take this.
It is time it passed to another's keeping.
No, please. Stop.
-Get back. -Please. Don't leave us.
I know your mother would wish the same as me.
That you and Noctis live happily.
All those years captive because I failed you.
Not again.
Locked doors will seal your fate no longer.
King Regis....
Our hope goes with you now, Nyx Ulric. Godspeed.
Behold the King of Lucis...
...who hoarded tranquility within his precious walls.
Where is your tranquility now, king?
Here is your peace, by steel's swift descent.
Go.
No. We must get away from here.
It is what your king wanted.
Lady Lunafreya has escaped with the ring.
Find her at once.
She is not to leave the city.
-Ulric to command. Come in, captain. -Footage of the perpetrators...
...was captured by a nearby surveillance camera.
Here are images of the six suspects.
One has been identified as Galahdian refugee, Libertus Ostium...
...a former member of the Lucian Kingsglaive.
Hey, come here. Come here.
I got you, I got you. You're all right.
You're okay.
It's fine.
We're free.
We're free now.
We're free? What do you mean, "We're free"?
The empire. They promised.
This district's ours.
All the refugees.
It's our new home.
-The empire? You went in with Niflheim? -Here.
Take this. Meet up with the others.
You're the hero of our revolution, brother.
Damn it.
This guy just doesn't know when he's beat.
-Can you drive? -I can try.
I'll be right back.
No warping for you this time, hero.
Give me the wheel. Go.
You are without your magic.
You noticed that, huh? It must have died with the king.
You're making a mess of my city, Glaive. I thought I told you not to go playing hero.
Leave the ship to me.
Looks like you got a royal fare to see to.
Move it.
Maybe not all miracles are made by magic.
Oh, great.
The hell did you do to piss these things off?
It's not me they're after. It's the ring.
What's so special about this ring? Don't tell me the future's riding on it.
He who wears the ring communes with the Lucii...
-...and commands great power. -What kind of power?
A forbidden one. Sealed within the ring, long ago.
The Old Wall. I thought that was just a bedtime story.
I can assure you it is not.
But the Lucii grant their power only to those they deem worthy.
So that guy who tried it on back there...
...I guess he wasn't deemed worthy.
That was my brother.
These 12 years have changed Ravus.
He is bound by the past, and lost in his lust for power.
How the hell did they find us?
Your hairpin. They're tracking it. Give it to me.
I had a little sister once. She was killed when the empire came.
I couldn't save her.
I was as helpless then as I am now.
I couldn't show her the future she wanted.
True power is not something that is found by those who seek it.
It is something that comes to those who deserve it.
Your sister wanted you to see a future as well.
Anyone would wish the same for family they love.
You don't pull any punches, do you?
I'm over here.
Do you hear me? Repeat, this is Drautos.
Can you hear me? Over.
Your timing's impeccable, captain.
If the Lucii are real...
...they sure don't seem to mind their city getting torn apart.
You're to rendezvous and regroup. Understood?
Might not be so easy, captain.
My wings have been clipped, if you didn't know.
Ulric. Are you all right?
I'm not dead, if that's what you mean, sir.
Head for Section D as soon as you can.
I'll have an evacuation team ready.
Don't suppose you could meet me at the gate.
I'd kind of like to get the hell out of this city.
Imperials hold all exits. There's no way through.
I'll meet you at Section D.
Cut all radio contact until then. And make sure you get there.
It's a date, sir.
Ain't no turning back now.
Status report.
Ulric killed some good men.
-What about the ring? -We don't have it yet.
This is Glauca. King Regis is dead.
The ring is on its way to Section D.
We must recover the ring to realize our goal.
If Ulric or the princess get in the way, take them out.
Reclaim our hearth and home.
"Hearth and home"?
Libertus, come in.
Where are you? Are you all right?
I'm fine.
On the way back to base now.
We need you to head to the junction in Section D.
We're gonna join with another unit, make a clean sweep of the place.
We're one step away from realizing this revolution.
Let's not let Pruvia's death be in vain.
We'll be waiting for you, hero.
-Don't move until I say it's safe, all right? -I won't.
Ulric, reporting.
I have the princess.
She's alive and well.
-No! -Get out of here.
You've got some fight in you, Nyx, I'll give you that.
Run. Now.
I can't believe you're still moving with that hollowpoint in you.
All Crowe could do was scream, when one tore her insides apart.
-Why'd you do it? -Because the Kingsglaive is nothing.
An old man's battle fodder...
...sent to die in Insomnia's war...
...while our homes are bound and shackled.
Niflheim took your home.
Took all our homes!
Nothing will ever change that.
You never were too smart.
You could've had a new future with the empire.
There's nowhere to run, princess.
The ring.
Give it to me.
So many dead over so simple a thing.
But why? For what?
Power.
Untold power, beyond the control of someone like you.
Power....
Captain.
Nyx.
It's over. The daemons are unleashed.
Lucis is fallen.
Surrender the ring.
Plan on giving those kings a piece of your mind, princess?
You got a destiny to take care of here, remember?
Besides, didn't anyone tell you?
I'm the hero around here.
Show yourselves, kings of Lucis.
You call upon the wards of this world's future, mortal.
And if you come lusting for our power, you must first stand in our judgment.
How long will you do nothing whilst Insomnia burns?
Old or new, or whatever it is.
Summon your Wall.
You do not command us.
Yours is not even royal blood.
It does not fall to us to guard your city.
Man is a fool creature...
...clinging to his past and cowering from his future.
Wasting his strength on bygone days.
And what future are you wards of?
So shortsighted.
And cursed never to rise above it.
Wait.
I have seen what this brave soul is prepared to do.
He, too, seeks to safeguard the future.
Your Majesty.
Very well, young king. We will weigh your warrior's worth.
But our boon does not come cheap.
The cost is a life. His or hers.
No.
To hell with your power.
I'm not here for it.
I only came to tell you, you are no kings.
Your worth has been weighed and found wanting.
Now burn.
You're going to lose your precious ring.
But it's not too late to save it.
You mean to barter for your life.
No, no.
My life is nothing.
Giving a future to those who want to see it...
...is everything.
You do not fear, even if that future is doomed.
If that sentiment is not false, perhaps you are worthy.
We will grant you our light.
But know it will set when the sun rises.
And the price for it will be your life.
You guys drive a hard bargain.
Where do I sign?
I could get used to this.
Nyx....
-I'm sorry. -Don't be.
You saved me.
Now I owe you.
For a change.
I'm gonna need another favor.
Meet Lunafreya Nox Fleuret, our prince's beloved bride-to-be.
And she has the future of the world in her hands.
Keep her safe, get her out of Insomnia.
Oh, I almost forgot. You'll need this.
Give Prince Noctis my regards.
Libertus will take care of you from here.
Have a safe journey, Your Highness.
-What will come of you? -What the hell are you doing?
Following the kings' orders.
I will see the ring to Noctis.
The future will be safe. I swear it.
Planning on punching your way out of the city? Keep it.
-Now we're even. -No.
We'll settle up once you're back in Galahd.
Me and everyone else will be waiting for you.
I'm counting on you...
...hero.
-Buckle up, princess. -My life is in your hands.
So, the power of the Lucii returns.
No matter. You are out of time.
For you, I'll make some.
What can you hope to do?
One man against an empire.
Against the daemons.
How will you save Insomnia with no wall to protect you?
You've got it all wrong. I'm not fighting to save Insomnia.
So this is the might of the Old Wall.
Marvelous. Truly marvelous.
Why'd you do it?
Lucis. Niflheim.
It isn't who we fight for that matters, only what.
We fight for our homes. That is where our allegiance lies.
That's not something you see every day.
Oh, such a pitiable waste.
All those beautiful city streets, all laid to unsightly ruin.
-I will return to Niflheim. -So soon?
The crystal is ours.
Finish this...
...and see the daemons disposed of.
As you command.
Such a pitiable waste.
How could you serve the empire?
After everything they did?
I do not fault them for taking what was given.
I fault the man who gave it.
The man who cowered behind his wall...
...and abandoned us to save his throne and his son.
Give me the ring, and our homes will be free again.
The empire has promised it.
I don't see much of a future on the other side of that promise.
Don't be a fool.
Save your friends.
Give your dead sister peace.
What do you fight for if not that?
Hang on. This could get bumpy.
Drautos.
Here, take the wheel.
Floor it!
-Libertus! -Just keep your foot on the gas.
You're all right?
I'll be waiting for you, hero.
What of your kings' power now?
They've given you a burden you cannot hope to bear.
I told you before.
Just wanting doesn't win wars.
For the honor of my home, I fought and killed under a king I loathed.
And still he betrayed me.
He betrayed us all.
We fought for the same thing. All of us.
But you've looked too long on the past.
You're blind to the future.
Predictable.
Unlike you, I learn from history.
But you're a slave to the past.
A man's past is his pride.
No.
My pride is shaping the future.
Looks like I'm gonna owe him big.
We're almost there.
Almost.
King Regis did what he did for the future.
Because of him...
...there's still hope for our homes.
Hope....
Not the worst way to go.
Rule well, young king.
We should move.
It ain't safe here either.
Hey.
Don't worry about Nyx.
He can take care of himself.
Come on.
No.
We must part ways here.
What?
I can hardly travel in secrecy alongside so great a hero.
And I, too, have a promise to keep to Nyx.
I pray you two see each other again soon.
Yeah.
Me too.
Thank you, Libertus.
Hey, queen!
You and the king are always welcome in Galahd.
Me and Nyx will be waiting for you.
It's been some while.
Do you remember the last time you saw Lady Lunafreya?
About 12 years ago.
That would make you 8?
-You were kids. -Hope she hasn't gotten her hopes up.
Why not? Calm yourself.
Try and keep it together when you meet her.
-She'll expect to see a fine, young prince. -Tell me something I don't know.
We don't have time for all that.
But this is your wedding we're talking about, Noc.
Knew that too.
You really gotta calm down.
it's not just some kind of mathematical machine in my head.
[woman] It is contaminated in terms of facts.
It's mixed with desires... with fears...
Memory is such a fickle thing.
[woman speaking Icelandic] Police are looking for a 19-year-old man who has been missing since Saturday night.
[woman speaking Icelandic] Rescue teams are searching the lava fields.
Now, police are searching for a 34-year-old man.
His car was found abandoned in Keflavík.
[woman] Every Icelander knows about this case.
It's the biggest criminal case of the last century.
[woman speaking Icelandic] Six people were sentenced in the Supreme Court today
for two murders,
concluding a case that has rocked Iceland.
[woman] It was such torture because I was this guilty person...
...and I had never really connected
with the actual memory of any of it happening.
[woman] When I was growing up in Reykjavík, it was a small-town community.
It felt almost like one family because everyone is related.
[man] In '74, there were probably 220,000 people.
Iceland was a village, and you still knew most everyone.
[man] We didn't have so much experience of the outer world.
It was a safe community. There was very little crime.
It was a state of innocence, really.
[woman] And authorities were something everybody trusted,
and newspapers, they don't lie, and that's what people had here.
They trusted that everything was the way it seemed.
NEWS
[speaking Icelandic] Good evening. This is a special news report.
Last night, a volcano erupted in the Westmann Islands.
[man speaking Icelandic] This is a frightening environment.
It feels like I've reached hell.
[Erla] It was a time here in Iceland where there was a lot of changes,
and I remember my parent's generation was quite nervous of... what on earth was going on.
And I felt like I was with the crowd that really had an understanding of life.
Hippies didn't respect rules. They didn't respect law.
[Erla] People would be smoking hash and discussing politics,
and I was soaking up everything they said like a sponge.
[Erla] At these parties, where everybody's passing the pipe, there he is.
And I was wondering, "Who's this guy?"
And somebody said, "That's Saevar Ciesielski."
Saevar had a foreign look, most definitely.
He had this dark hair, and he had these Slavic eyes.
And the other thing about him was, he was so mysterious.
[man] There was always this mythology around Ciesielski.
The story was that he had this group of thugs around him.
They came from broken homes. They had left school early.
These kids were in trouble from, basically, the day they were born.
[Erla] LSD had entered the picture,
and, on one of these occasions, this party is going on,
and we're just drinking coke or something.
And then, all of a sudden, I start feeling like I'm getting high,
until I realized I am actually high on LSD.
So, I started looking for a corner, somewhere where I could hide.
And then I stumble on something, and it's Saevar.
And then he tells me, "Somebody must have put LSD in my drink."
So, we were just gonna hang on to each other through this.
We talked about our view of life, innermost pain,
everything there was to know about each other.
I felt like I had met one of the most incredible human beings ever.
And he felt the same way, you know?
After that night,
there was no other way to go forward but together.
[speaking Icelandic] The night that Gudmundur disappeared, we had a party at my house.
we had a party at my house.
[Haraldsson] We had fun, and later, we went to a club in Hafnarfjördur.
The group stayed together in the beginning.
Then the men started dancing with the ladies.
When we were leaving, we searched for him everywhere,
but he must have left before us.
Our friend Kristinn called me on Monday to ask if I'd heard from Gudmundur.
I said that I didn't know where he was.
By Tuesday, it was more serious. He still hadn't come home.
[man] The weather changes very quickly here in Iceland.
Sometimes, you have a good sunny day in the morning,
but, at noon, you have heavy snow.
Some people don't understand how quickly...
...the weather changes and, uh, get lost.
Gudmundur disappeared on Saturday night, 27th of January.
And, on Tuesday, there was a big call for rescue teams...
...for a search.
There was about 200 people looking, and we searched until dark.
At that time, there was no thought about this was a crime or something like that.
Because, in those days,
it happened very often that people got lost in the lava.
I just waited to hear something.
But nothing happened.
STILL LOST
[Eggertsson] It was a nice summer, good weather for weeks on end.
[woman speaking Icelandic] The whole country came together to celebrate the National Day.
[speaking Icelandic] May God bless our country.
[Erla] My family was very upset about my relationship with Saevar...
because they had been told that he was, you know, a dangerous guy
because he was selling drugs.
And so, I was out of my relationship with my family because of him...
and, uh, he did have a hold on me.
I felt privileged to be considered okay by him.
Saevar had this desire to commit some kind of a crime that he would get away with
and leave authorities just tearing their hair out
'cause they couldn't prove anything.
[Erla] As I was working for a telephone company,
I came up with this embezzlement that we eventually committed.
What we had to do was tamper with the telephones
to make it sound like we were calling long distance.
I called the office where I worked, and I said I have a postal order.
[Erla] And so, it gets processed and sent from there
to the main post office downtown.
POST AND TELEPHONE
And then I go to the post office, and I tell them, "I'm here to pick up the post order."
I was so scared. I felt like, "I'm gonna get caught."
The amount that we embezzled was just under a million kroner.
And I became pretty confident that they would never find out.
"Boy, are they gonna be pissed off. We got 'em."
[woman speaking Icelandic] The police are searching for Geirfinnur Einarsson,
who has been missing since last Tuesday.
The whole chain of events were so mysterious...
that we immediately thought, "This is a murder enquiry."
[woman speaking Icelandic] That night, Geirfinnur arranged to meet some unknown men at a local harbor café.
[Sigurdsson] Witnesses remember that a man came into the café,
and he asked to use the phone.
This was about the same time that Geirfinnur got his phone call.
[speaking Icelandic] Hello?
Yeah... Papa.
[speaking Icelandic] Yes?
I'm coming.
[speaking Icelandic] The last person to see him was his 12-year-old son.
[woman speaking Icelandic] Geirfinnur's car was discovered close to the Harbor Café.
[man speaking Icelandic] Is there nothing that helps indicate what might have happened?
[speaking Icelandic] No, there's absolutely nothing.
[Sigurdsson] He was a good man, had no enemies.
It was unlike him to disappear like that.
There were searching teams all over the docks, divers in the harbor,
everything was done.
An artist in Keflavík came up with the idea
to make a clay statue of the suspect...
and the reaction was overwhelming in our society.
[man speaking Icelandic] Are you optimistic that this case will be solved?
[speaking Icelandic] Yes, we will find this man.
[Sigurdsson] No body was found, so we were totally at a blank end.
Very early on, got the sense that something going on here
that's not going to end well.
And it turned out, didn't end well.
[Erla] Our daughter was born here in Reykjavík...
on the 24th of September, 1975.
Saevar was present at the birth and very excited.
After she was born, I had one focus in my life...
and that was to be a perfect mother for this child.
I would sacrifice anything.
And I was really upset with Saevar's way of life at that point.
I had told him, "I don't want this anymore."
I just want to have a normal life in the daylight, nothing to hide.
I was 20 years old, and I was so naive.
Saevar and his friends were known to the police.
They were...They were a part of...
some kind of a criminal underworld.
[Valdimarsson] Most of them had been in prison for a petty crime...
...thievery.
They were violent.
This was a nasty group of kids.
[Erla] When they came to arrest me,
they surrounded this big building as if they were arresting a terrorist.
All I could do was call my sister.
So, she came around and took the baby.
I remember getting in a car.
Glimpses where I'm just really scared.
And I remember trying to tell them, "I can't be here for a long time
because the baby needs me."
They took me to this prison.
And then I was locked up in this cell.
The next day, they spoke to me
and explained that I was now gonna be held in custody for 30 days
on suspicion of the embezzlement.
I just broke down and couldn't handle that reality.
What about the baby?
And then they just sent me back to my cell,
and then left me there for six days and nights.
During the questioning about the embezzlement,
they told me that Saevar had been very clear
that I had been entirely on my own doing that.
And they told me, "You need to realize
that Saevar is a really rotten human being to the core.
There is no redemption for him."
I was really shocked that Saevar would betray me that way,
but he had betrayed me in terms of other girls,
so it was easier for me to believe them.
Eventually, I decided to tell them everything.
Not just the embezzlement, but anything illegal that I was aware of.
And what a relief.
It was the end of an era and a beginning of a life.
These guys had actually helped me.
[Erla] And then one of them says, "Oh, by the way, one other thing we wanted to ask you...
Do you know a guy by the name of Gudmundur Einarsson?"
And then he shows me a photograph.
I said, "Yeah, I've seen this guy, years ago at my girlfriend's house.
She had a school party. I remember him because he was a really nice guy."
And that was it. "Are you sure?"
"Yeah, yeah, I don't remember ever seeing him after that."
During that case, I think it was Erla who started to tell them about...
things that had happened... the year before.
[Erla] This was a long questioning. It was hours.
And, during that whole process, they got closer and closer
to talking about the weekend when this boy disappeared.
Somehow, it got down to me telling them that I had had a nightmare.
[Erla] The weather that night was crazy.
It would just howl like... like a wolf.
And, an old house like that...
you feel like the house is, you know, moving.
Then I hear some whispering.
There were people outside my window.
And these were violent people.
And I become aware that they're whispering, wondering if I'm awake or not.
I feel like I'm in this corner, I can't go anywhere.
And then I wake up.
After all this questioning, the chief of the investigation leans over,
and he says, "Something terrible happened that night in that apartment.
You witnessed it, and you cannot recall because of the trauma it caused you.
So, what we want to do now is, you go back to your cell,
and you try as much as you can to remember,
and then we will be back and talk about it some more."
I remember lying there, thinking about that night.
My head was full of pictures.
And I wondered, "Was that nightmare maybe something that really did happen?"
That I woke up...
...got out of bed...
...and saw them.
[Erla's voice] I saw Saevar and Kristjan
[Erla's voice] I saw Saevar and Kristjan and a third person I didn't recognize carrying something heavy.
and a third person I didn't recognize carrying something heavy.
I didn't see what was in the sheet, but I was sure that it was a body.
I couldn't move.
I was cold, but, at the same time, I felt like I was sweating.
Later, Saevar took me by the arms and put me to bed.
I said I was going to deny everything.
[Jóhannesson] Gudmundur disappears in January '74,
and she made this confession December '75.
So, it's already two years.
[Jóhannesson] I searched the flat...
but, uh, there was not much evidence on the scene.
No DNA, nothing of the sort.
[speaking Icelandic] Hello?
[Erla] After I was released, they call me,
and they tell me, "We have questioned Saevar..."
"...and we just want to let you know
that his testimony is in line with yours in detail."
[man's voice] December 22nd, 1975.
Saevar said that Gudmundur, Kristjan, and Tryggvi had all come to the apartment
Saevar said that Gudmundur, Kristjan, and Tryggvi had all come to the apartment during the night in late January 1974.
An argument had ended in Gudmundur's death.
Saevar had called his friend Albert and asked him to come in his father's car.
It was, uh... half past 11 in the evening.
Kristjan called and he said, "They're accusing me of murder."
Kristjan then reveals the other guys, and something had happened.
[Kristjan's voice] I can't clearly remember the events of that night.
the events of that night.
I was under the influence of alcohol.
But all I'm going to tell you, I think I remember with certainty.
There was a fight in the apartment, and I'm sure I took no part in it.
[Tryggvi's voice] There was some disagreement,
[Tryggvi's voice] There was some disagreement, I'm sure, between Kristjan and the man with no name.
I'm sure, between Kristjan and the man with no name.
It started by them cursing each other, but ended in a fight.
Then the man hit me, and I think I hit him, and he fell to the floor.
Then I saw Saevar kick him in the head.
[Kristjan] The next thing I remember is that Albert's car was at the house.
[Albert's voice] Saevar, Kristjan, and Tryggvi approached the vehicle.
I saw that all three carried something that looked like a bag.
Saevar told me where to drive.
On the way back, Saevar and I discussed what was in the bag.
Saevar then clearly told me that it contained a corpse.
[Erla] The police had told me that, when they were trying to figure out
what had been done with the body,
they had cut it all up into pieces and carried it out in plastic bags.
My mind was getting really warped.
And it felt, to me, like all this had been going on with me completely unaware
and that these guys had been butchers of people.
I was picturing him, when he's holding the baby...
The smile was just an act or... Everything...
Everything becomes questionable.
[speaking Icelandic] The first people to know about the birth of baby Jesus
were the three wise men from the East.
Gaspar, Melchior, and Balthazar.
They predicted these events from old writings
and the position of the stars.
The next thing that happened is-- is in early 1976.
[Jóhannesson] Police is still investigating Saevar and Erla about Gudmundur.
-They mention also Geirfinnur. -[tapping]
[Erla] The police always stayed in touch with me.
And, with my social situation, where I was so isolated,
these were the only friends in the world that I had,
and they became very important to me.
At some point, the talk starts getting to the disappearance of Geirfinnur.
And he asks me point blank, "Do you think that Saevar knows something
about what happened to him?"
[Jóhannesson] The thing about Geirfinnur was that he was never found.
So, it was suspicious from the start.
Then started some rumors and some conspiracy theories.
[man] There were all these rumors going on
that there might have been a connection between the disappearance of Geirfinnur
and people running a particular discotheque.
There were always a lot of smugglers all around,
and the rumor was that some of the clubs would...
get their alcohol from that source.
So, maybe this guy Geirfinnur got caught up in smuggling.
[Erla's voice] We drove from the city and headed to Keflavík.
Saevar held my hand the whole time like he didn't want to let go.
The car stopped close to the sea.
[Erla] Basically, Geirfinnur had been hired to pick up big plastic containers of alcohol
that were being smuggled into the country.
And then there had been a quarrel.
And he had died because of all of that.
For the village of Iceland, this was, you know-- this was shocking.
It was the biggest story to hit the population for years and years.
MURDER IN THE DRY DOCK
[Jóhannesson] The perception was that this was organized crime
that ended with people in the highest places.
[Valdimarsson] The gossip was that the Progressive Party
had been involved in all the smuggling.
[Reynisson] And the chairman of the Progressive Party was the Minister of Justice.
So, this was a big scandal.
[speaking Icelandic] I'm being accused of obstructing
the investigation of a disappearance
and even implying I'm covering up murder.
It was really the beginning of... I would call it "public hysteria."
[man] We had a killer gang amongst us,
two times... murders...
Where was the police?
How could this have happened?
And, of course, in this little close-knit community,
everyone was talking about this.
What's really going on...
in this kind of a hotbed society?
In a way, we lost our innocence, we lost our security.
All of a sudden, the big bad world was knocking at our door.
Then, in early May '76, all of a sudden, these four men are released.
Turns out that the investigation produced nothing.
[Jóhannesson] Saevar and the gang, they made up this story.
It took the police three months to figure out that this was...
all the time, was a total lie.
During the summer of 1976, I was a detective with that same force
investigating these two cases.
What I saw is that the police were under incredible pressure to solve these cases.
[Gudjónsson] The atmosphere was tense, like a panic.
The message that was being communicated, was, "All of these people,
they're playing games, they're not cooperating."
[Jóhannesson] The police was in a very, very bad situation.
Even after they have confessed killing Geirfinnur,
they're still changing their story about how he died.
[Jóhannesson] And the police didn't have the bodies.
They had only the statements from these people.
[Erla's voice] Saevar put the rifle in my hands and sit next to me.
I was so close to the guy that I could see his face.
He seemed to realize what was happening to him, and there was panic in his eyes.
The investigation had been going on for a long time.
It didn't seem to be going very well.
[Jóhannesson] The police had not experienced a case like that.
I mean, two murders.
The public was demanding that the police would come up with a solution.
Find the guilty persons.
[Valdimarsson] The Minister of Justice is getting anxious.
He's responsible for the whole thing, so he uses his influence,
and soon after, uh, this guy Schutz shows up.
[Jóhannesson] He was head of the West German Security Police.
[Valdimarsson] We thought, "Well this seems to be, uh... you know, the real McCoy."
[Gudjónsson] Karl Schutz sets up a task force of seven police officers,
and there were three interpreters and the investigating judge.
And he was quite a hard taskmaster.
The focus is very much, "We've got to find the bodies."
There were an enormous amount of searches for Gudmundur's and Geirfinnur's bodies.
[Gudjónsson] Karl Schutz spent months studying the case and trying to understand it.
And he was also interviewing the suspects through an interpreter.
The focus was on, "Who was the driver who took the gang to meet Geirfinnur?"
They had to find somebody who could have...
driven the car...
and somebody they all knew...
...and there was I.
[Gudjónsson] Gudjón was different to the others.
He was older, he was a much more educated man,
and he came from a good background.
And he said he had been there.
It was a confession that was used to convict the others.
[Gudjón's voice] The three of us fought with Geirfinnur, and that resulted in his death.
I don't remember the body being put in the car,
but, on the way back to Reykjavík,
I remember I was sad that I was an accomplice to murder.
[Kristjan's voice] We transferred the body to Reykjavík,
of course, to get rid of the corpse so it would never be found.
[Saevar's voice] Erla waited while we carried the body into the Land Rover and put him in the back.
We then drove all the way to Raudhólar.
We dug a hole into the red gravel just big enough to fit the body.
[speaking German] Unfortunately, Geirfinnur's body still hasn't been found.
But the offenders who caused his death
have told us that he is buried in the Red Hills.
This relies up to 95 percent on the statements of the accused...
but we have put every effort into investigating and verifying them.
As we criminal specialists often say, this is beyond reasonable doubt.
State radio calls up the Prime Minister to get his reaction,
and he says, "The nightmare is over."
[singing in Icelandic] ♪ The people here Have clashed with the system ♪
♪ But something's missing ♪
♪ I insist this black hole needs A specialist ♪
♪ Yes, yes, yes ♪ ♪ Yes, yes, yes ♪
♪ This black hole needs a specialist ♪
♪ Yes, yes, yes ♪
♪ We capture in no time Everyone who's suspected of a crime ♪
♪ We bring them here to this dank place We bring them here to confess! ♪
♪ Yes, yes, yes ♪
♪ Yes, yes, yes ♪
♪ We bring them here to confess! ♪
-♪ Yes, yes, yes ♪ -[song ends]
[man speaking Icelandic] This is court case number 214,1978.
Judicial authorities against Kristjan Vidarsson, Saevar Ciesielski,
Tryggvi Leifsson, Albert Skaftason, Erla Bolladóttir.
[Erla] The public just wanted our blood.
There was so much pressure on authorities
to convict all of us and get us really good.
And there was no one that actually did not believe all this.
[speaking Icelandic] In a flat in Hamarsbraut 11...
they beat him so badly that he died, and then hid his body.
[woman speaking Icelandic] The state prosecutor finished his speech. How long was it?
[speaking Icelandic] He spoke for about 15 and a half hours.
[woman] Are the speeches normally this long?
No, I've never known anything like it.
[Palsson] Now, the accused had the opportunity to present their cases, and they did.
What they said was that they were innocent.
There was a lack of evidence, there are no bodies,
and the whole case was, uh... ...was nonsense.
But, even though they were withdrawing their testimonies...
people believed they had killed those two men.
End of story.
[Erla] I was found guilty of the embezzlement, of course,
and perjury.
Well, that I had intentionally framed innocent people
for something they didn't do.
[woman speaking Icelandic] Saevar, Kristjan, and Tryggvi were convicted of murdering Gudmundur.
Albert had helped hide the body.
Saevar, Kristjan, and Gudjón were convicted of murdering Geirfinnur
in a dispute over alcohol smuggling.
Kristjan had been the man who made the mysterious phone call.
[speaking Icelandic] The court have ruled the following...
The accused Kristjan Vidar Vidarsson is sentenced to 16 years in prison.
Saevar Ciesielski is sentenced to 17 years.
Tryggvi Leifsson is sentenced to 13 years.
Gudjón Skarphédinsson is sentenced to 10 years.
Albert Skaftason is sentenced to 12 months.
Erla Bolladóttir is sentenced to three years.
In the end, the police arrested the right people in both cases.
[Erla] It was always with the feeling that he was some sort of a satanic criminal.
And I was supposed to have been this submissive but monstrous person as well.
The image that we were given was very much like Charles Manson and his girlfriend.
[Gudjónsson] The Minister of Justice thanks Karl Schutz
for unburdening the Icelandic nation of a nightmare.
Obviously, the Minister of Justice was assuming case solved.
What he didn't say...
"This is the beginning of an endless nightmare,
and this nightmare is still going to this day."
[Erla] I don't think I had a clear thought for years through all this.
I felt like I was drowning in so much confusion and so much guilt.
Your thoughts can take over, and your mind becomes a monster.
"What of this am I remembering?
And what is missing that I'm not remembering?"
Memory is such a fickle thing.
The day I got out, all I could think was, "My daughter's on the other side."
Man, I had prepared for days, you know, to look right
and-and, you know, have the right things to say.
And she had this bouquet of flowers.
And... it was the happiest day ever.
When I was released, I was basically two things.
I provoked curiosity, and I was despised.
And people felt free to express it, like spitting in my face.
The first time Saevar and I ever talked about what had happened...
...it was literally that kind of moment,
like, "What the hell happened to us? What was it all about?"
He went through years of anger...
blaming me for everything.
And I went through incredible guilt
for having testified against him.
There were so many years where we just couldn't connect,
and it had so much to do with, you know,
our relationship had been invaded by such dark powers.
[Unnsteinsson] It was very difficult to be Saevar Ciesielski
here in Iceland, in this small society.
He, somehow, became the evil for, like, I don't know,
ninety percent of the Icelandics.
Just evil incarnate.
[Erla] When Saevar came out of prison...
he met a girl, and they lived together,
and they had two children, and they even moved to America.
We tried to move to Colorado and just start a new...
you know, family there, away from all this drama.
But he really could not let it go. He wanted to clear his name.
We decided to go back to Iceland.
And then he started to, you know, really try to fight this case.
[speaking Icelandic] There is one question I have always wanted to ask you.
Where is Geirfinnur?
[speaking Icelandic] I don't know anything about the disappearance of Geirfinnur.
I didn't kill Geirfinnur or Gudmundur, and I want justice.
And I'm here to get it, and I'll fight to the end.
[man speaking Icelandic] Saevar Ciesielski added a report  to the Ministry of Justice today
and a letter to the president of Supreme Court.
Uh... everything was done to put the guilt on me. I don't know why.
Maybe because I have a foreign name.
And I was treated like an animal.
I want to regain respect.
I insist that I be acquitted and the case retried.
[man] I collected information and documents  trying to understand what had happened.
The evidence of the... of the case itself...
I saw the flaws, and they were so obvious.
Usually, in murder cases, you have the place where the crime was committed,
you have bodies, you have motives.
They had no such traditional evidence at all.
They only had the statements made by the accused themselves.
[Adalsteinsson] My legal arguments were quite tight.
And the facts were all in favor of reopening the case.
I presented all this to the Supreme Court.
[man speaking Icelandic] In the Supreme Court decision  that was published today,
Ragnar's arguments are addressed and the court's decision is clear.
They are not enough for a retrial.
Even though the Supreme Court has decided that the case should not be reopened,
the court thinks the new documents show Saevar was badly mistreated in prison.
[woman speaking Icelandic] You feel that they were considered guilty  by the media and authorities
before the verdict was published?
[Adalsteinsson speaking Icelandic] You're innocent until proven guilty.
In this case, the media all decided that they were guilty.
I hope this will open people's eyes to how the system works.
Let's be rational and make up our own minds.
-[scattered applause] -Thank you.
[Adalsteinsson] He had a lot of support already at that time.
People there obviously not believing
in the correctness of the conclusions of the courts.
[man speaking Icelandic] How are you doing financially?
I'm in a very bad position. Very bad.
-Bankrupt? -Yes, I am.
I staked everything on this.
[Erla] I saw a lot of Saevar after he lost his battle.
He had put his entire existence into this,  and, you know, where was he gonna go from there?
I mean, in his world, there were no options.
I always knew there was something really dark and bad that happened to my father.
Years and years of trying to fight the system,
and that, in the end, just tore him apart completely.
Many people knew Saevar only from the streets.
He was a heavy drinker, a broken man.
[Unnsteinsson] He was a famous man by that time.
And people were kind of mellowing towards him.
He still had this charm. He might be drunk and drugged,
but he always usually kept his charm.
But, of course, it was very, very sad.
Who the fuck do you think you are? I have suffered because of you.
Because of you.
I'm going to tell you one thing.
Life isn't that simple.
Why did you attack me like that when I was a young boy?
Why did you attack me?
He was really emotional in the end about this whole thing,
and it was pretty hard to watch that happen, you know,
in slow-motion, in front of you.
[Arnardóttir] Everybody had followed Saevar's journey...
because he fought many battles...
to prove his innocence... with no results.
His funeral was held at the cathedral downtown,
and it was totally packed,
from the street people, to politicians.
JULY 1955 - JULY 2011 REST IN PEACE
[Arnardóttir] When he died, it hit the news.
His relatives, Erla and his children came forward
and talked about this case,
talked about his battles.
And... pushed that this case
should be reopened and reinvestigated.
That's when I thought maybe I should do something about it.
As a reporter, when you look at this case,
you're warned that you might be stepping into a black hole.
And, once you start to look into it, you just can't stop.
I had filmed a couple of interviews with people related to this case.
And then I decided to speak to Tryggvi's widow.
[woman] My mom called me
and said that there was this woman from the news coming to interview her
regarding my dad's case...
and asked if I want to come and be with them.
There was something in my... in my mind that said that this could be useful...
because I didn't want my dad to be remembered as a murderer.
[Arnardóttir] When we arrived, his daughter was there, Kristín.
And she said, "I have something you might be interested in.
I have my father's diaries from when he was in prison."
I just wanted her to see them.
And I didn't think it would have any more meaning than that.
I just wanted her to see something from my dad.
A piece of him.
[Arnardóttir] When she showed me the diaries, there's a long title.
It read, "This is a diary of an innocent man,
who is accused of a very serious thing in a very serious case."
[Kristín] "April 25th, 1977.
So, now, I have been here continuously for 16 months and 11 days in custody,
including 14 months in isolation, totally alone.
I shall hold fast. I don't have to be afraid as I'm innocent,
and justice always prevails in the end."
I realized, at that point, we had something new.
We had something to report on.
So, I thought we would have to get a specialist's opinion.
Gísli Gudjónsson is a world leading expert on false confessions.
An Icelander, who has practiced in the UK for 40 years.
I was thinking, "The diaries, they need to go to Gísli. He is the person.
If anybody should see them, it's gonna be him."
But I was so nervous. I was afraid that Gísli would say that...
even though he wrote that he was an innocent man, maybe he wasn't.
[Gudjónsson] I could not say,  from reading the diaries, this man is innocent or not
because it's not for me to say.
But he was stating his innocence and explaining why.
And that suggested that this was new material,
and I thought the case should be reviewed again.
The key implication was that perhaps the confessions were not reliable.
I was so relieved.
That was... the biggest scoop.
[speaking Icelandic] Let's go back to 1974, to the 21st of November,
two days after the disappearance of Geirfinnur Einarsson here in Keflavík.
[Arnardóttir] My story was broadcast, and it got massive attention.
And I think in the same week, the Ministry announced
that an investigation committee would be established.
I decided to put down a commission
to look into the investigation and the methods used in the investigation
and how these confessions were obtained.
[woman] We went through thousands of pages.
Police reports, handwritten notes from the police...
uh, reports taken from prison cards.
It was quite obvious, when we looked into the prison diaries,
that many records were missing.
The convicted had a lack of access to their attorneys,
and they were interrogated many, many times more often
than the police reports indicated.
Saevar, for example, he had been interrogated
180 times, for 340 hours.
He had been in solitary for 615 days.
Erla was interrogated 105 times.
Tryggvi was kept in solitary for the longest,
for 655 days total.
It came very clear to us that, uh...
many things were going seriously wrong under the investigation.
NEWS
[woman speaking Icelandic] The task force presented their results today
and said there is no doubt that the confessions are unreliable.
They recommend that the state prosecutor reopen the case.
The key findings of the commission were that these confessions
were, in all likelihood, fabricated.
People had been admitting to something they didn't do.
I have never worked on a case, anywhere in the world,
where there'd been so many interrogations and such lengthy interrogations.
This is quite exceptional.
This is the only case I know of,
where so many individuals have had their memories distorted to this extent.
Five of the six had what I call a memory distrust syndrome.
The person begins to think,
"Maybe something did happen and I didn't remember it."
[Erla] When I read the report,
I was really faced with how incredibly unreliable memory is.
"What of this am I remembering?
And what is missing that I'm not remembering?"
This whole thing starts with a confession...
...where Erla was under no pressure at all.
It's she that tells them
that they were involved in the killing of Gudmundur.
[Erla] The police had been explaining that,
[Erla] The police had been explaining that, often when people experience something that is too much for them to handle,
often when people experience something that is too much for them to handle,
they bury it somewhere and they cannot recall it.
And they said, "We know how to help you remember
if you did witness something terrible."
They formed a crack in my mind.
And then they just got in there and worked on it.
And that was my horror...
to face the possibility
that Saevar would have resorted to cutting up a human being.
Through all this exchange,
this story came out, almost like a genie, you know, or something.
And-And-And, for a long time, I asked myself, "Who made that story?
Did I make it or...? How did that, you know, transpire?"
At the time that Erla was questioned... in the Gudmundur case, she was a very vulnerable person.
in the Gudmundur case, she was a very vulnerable person.
It is likely that the police officers had in their own mind
a scenario of what had happened to Gudmundur Einarsson.
And, over time, Erla began to believe
that maybe Saevar and his friends had been involved.
Once she began to express doubt in her own memory,
the police went for it.
[Erla] Now, the police were gonna come after me about what happened to Geirfinnur.
[Erla] In one version, Saevar hit him with a wooden log.
Another time, he had kicked him in the head,
and Kristjan had done it, and it was all over the place.
And then they had a warrant for my arrest.
[Erla] At that point, I felt so guilty.
And I was so responsible for ruining so many people's lives...
that, um... it was not too much for me to take it on me.
[Gudjónsson] The police were faced with a huge dilemma.
They had confessions, but they had no substance.
There was nothing tangible that came out of those interrogations.
And the country wanted an answer.
What happened to Geirfinnur Einarsson?
[man] To come to Sidumuli Prison
when the cases of Gudmundur and Geirfinnur started,
it was another world.
The atmosphere in Sidumuli was very tense.
The attitude amongst the guards and the policemen
was that these people were murderers.
The more pressure, the sooner they would confess.
The guards despised Saevar.
They called him, "the rat."
-[buzzing] -The one thing to break him down...
was to rid him of sleep.
There was a light, day and night, 24 hours.
-[banging] -And, during night,
they would knock on the wall, where he was inside.
That was to keep him awake.
Saevar was afraid of water.
They took him...
and immersed his head into the water...
...and said they would drown him if he didn't confess.
Those guards who did it, they enjoyed it and were proud of it
and laughed about it, of drowning the rat.
This was a heavy-handed investigation. This was heavy.
Albert Klahn went berserk in custody after a few days.
Tryggvi had to be, after four nights of sleeplessness, sedated by an injection.
Kristjan Vidar tried to kill himself twice.
It's breaking down that core.
Your capacity to really say, "I know that did not happen."
Once that's broken down, you are very vulnerable.
[man's voice] There was nothing but waiting...
...waiting for the next interrogation, wondering what I would say.
In the cell, I could do nothing but think.
I grew into the walls.
I could not feel my body. I was just head.
[Gudjónsson] There is a picture, which really was accepted by the court,
where Kristjan Vidar is kind of enacting what happened to Geirfinnur.
Here is what happened.
There's a photograph of it, accepting how it took place.
[Gudjónsson] Once you have enacted something,  you are showing how you did it.
It may have a damaging affect in the sense that it may reinforce that memory.
You begin to think it did actually happen like that.
[Erla] It was four times a day that they brought pills that I had to take.
And all of them had one thing in common, and that was they were tranquilizing.
I wasn't allowed to go outside.
It was complete isolation.
Very soon, you shrink down to this helpless baby.
Your mentality, your intelligence, everything just shrinks,
and you're in this abstract world.
You know, I really just... needed to die.
But this one... one tie with the baby...
was the thing that didn't allow me to do that.
When I thought about her, I couldn't picture her.
I couldn't see her face.
And then I knew I was going crazy, and I even wondered,
"Did I ever even have a baby?
Is that also my imagination?
'Cause I could swear that I feel that I do."
But no picture's coming.
[Magnússon] The criminal police told her...
that, in order to get out,
she had to tell everything.
And therefore, she told and told and told.
Much too much.
[Jóhannesson] This case is probably the first one that the police feels pressure
from the press and from public.
They had this fact that these people were missing.
They had "confessions," if you like,
from some of the people that had been involved in killing them.
But they always were changing the stories of who did what.
[Gudjónsson] Karl Schutz is brought in by the Minister of Justice
to harmonize the confessions
and to make them credible in terms of the court of law.
He is very much in charge, driving the investigation.
Everything is focused on proving that they were guilty.
Karl Schutz taught the Icelandic detectives
a new way of interrogating.
Basically, it involved coming at suspects from many different directions.
They would jump from one time to another to trick them into revealing the truth.
The police suggest things. "Could it have been this way?
Could it have been that way?"
And the person persuades himself perhaps he was present...
and begins to believe it.
[Jóhannesson] When Gudjón Skarphédinsson was arrested,
his statements...
were very important in-in closing up the case.
[man speaking Icelandic] The detective wants me to get used
to the thought of being a murderer.
If they think I am going to confess to Saevar and Erla's stories,
then they are wrong.
It's the same...
...routine again and again.
"Did they bury him somewhere or throw him in the ocean?
Where was the car? Who else was involved? What was his role about?"
You get tired,
and you don't know if you are dreaming or remembering things.
I got completely confused.
It came like clips from a movie into your mind.
[Skarphédinsson speaking Icelandic] Then I had confessed my involvement  in the killing of Geirfinnur Einarsson.
[Skarphédinsson] In the end, you feel you have been there...
that this has really happened.
[Erla] You wonder, "What else has happened that I don't remember?"
You can't trust your own mind.
It's sort of like somebody pulls the carpet from underneath,
and you're standing in thin air, and you don't know where the ground is.
[Gudjónsson] From the beginning, there was presumption of guilt.
Nobody seemed to consider the possibility that these people might be innocent
and that they did not know what had happened to Gudmundur and Geirfinnur.
Once the confession is taken, once it's in the air...
it corrupts everything else.
My feeling is that the police was under that much pressure that,
once they were on this journey and went down that track...
there was no turning back.
The rumor here in Iceland is that it's all a conspiracy by the police.
And I'm telling you it's not.
These were honest guys trying to do their best, and they did the right thing.
In the end, it's the prosecution system
that has to decide what to do with the result of a police investigation.
I think we are... learning from this case.
We are looking into a mirror.
[Gudjónsson] When there's been a miscarriage of justice  and lives are destroyed...
it's terribly important that the truth emerges
and that we correct the injustices that have been done.
[Reynisson] This was a witch-hunt that did much harm.
I remember saying to myself,
"How did it come about that I was caught up in this public hysteria?"
And it brought out... bad things in people, you know.
And that's what we're still recovering from.
[Gudmundsson speaking Icelandic] Erla and Saevar...
they were the perfect scapegoats.
[Erla] It's still difficult for me to see those pictures.
[voice breaking] It's just so painful to see this child...
'cause I'm connecting to what she went through,
but it still isn't really me.
Give me that bag. Oopsy-daisy.
-Knock it off! Get off, Kenny! -What do we got here? I'm gonna take that.
-Get off him! -What the fuck?
-You're such a stupid fuck! -What'd you just call me?
[girl] I called you a stupid fuck, you stupid fuck.
Hey, don't touch her!
Hey, I don't need your help, okay?
That's all you're gonna do? Out here by yourself, teach me a lesson?
You got held back, didn't you, Kenny? Twice, I think.
You think that's funny?
No, I think it's very sad, actually.
I only mention it because that would make you over 18.
If you were to beat me up, which I'm sure you could, it would be child abuse.
So if you don't want to wind up on some registry, I suggest you back the fuck--
Do you have any idea how much trouble you're in?
I'm looking at homework here for at least 15 different students.
Are we really not gonna discuss that I have an ice pack on my face?
Nurse says you'll be fine.
So no interest in why a teacher found me sprawled out on the ground?
Mia Sutton says she saw you walk into a beam out back.
How do you think we found you?
All right. I get it. I'm in trouble. All I'm trying to say is,
you have the chance to stop the people who make things hard for everybody. You gotta see the big picture here.
Light...
some people might look at you, a kid in your situation,
losing your mom the way you did,
and they'd cut you a little slack when it comes to these behavioral issues.
Well, I don't believe in that.
Detention. Two weeks. Get out of here.
Hey.
Oh! Hi. I'm awake.
I was just like a tree or a plant or something.
I'm heading out for a moment. Don't fall asleep or it adds another day.
"Rule one: The human whose name is written in this note shall die."
"Rule two: This note will not take effect
unless the writer has the person's face in their mind
when writing his or her name."
Hello?
Help! Help me! Help! Help!
What the fuck?! [whimpering]
[male voice] Shall we begin?
Okay.
Relax, Light.
You're asleep.
You're asleep and you're dreaming of some eight-foot-tall,
demon-looking motherfucker.
[creature] Oh, yes.
A dream. I like that.
Dreams are places you can have fun, right?
It's all in your mind, so why not enjoy it? -[girl shrieks outside] -Shh.
Listen.
[girl] Get off of me!
Go, check it out.
-[girl] No! -[Kenny] Come on! Come on!
[boy] What?
[girl]Kenny, no! Let me go! Get off me!
You're so disgusting! Get the fuck off of me!
-Ooh! While you're down there... -Aw, it sucks to be you.
[creature] Now we could, in this dream of yours,
take care of a situation like this.
We just put Kenny's name down...
and see what happens.
-Nah. -[girl] Get off! You're such assholes!
[creature] I know you want to.
Go on.
Help her.
I don't have a pen.
It's a good thing you have a pen.
Good. Now as long as we're playing, let's do it right.
There's no need to stop at "who."
I'm sorry. What else is there?
How.
For a beginner, not bad at all.
Now...
watch.
Give it back!
Now listen. I need to separate the wheat from the chaff.
I think you might be capable of great things,
but if you don't think you can handle it, that's fine.
Just put the note somewhere,
leave it alone for seven days, and I'll find it a new home.
How can this be possible?
It happened. Just like that.
And if this is possible, imagine what else you could do.
-He a friend of yours? -Who?
Kid in the accident.
Oh. No, I don't think he was a friend of anyone.
Want to talk about it?
No. We should talk about why you were still at school.
Oh, yeah, that wasn't a big deal.
I just wrote a couple papers and then got detention.
You don't think cheating's a big deal? That who you are?
No, um...
Actually, I only got caught because I was trying to break up a...
Know what? Doesn't matter. You wouldn't understand anyway.
Because you're just that smart or I'm just that dumb?
Because this is what you do. Instead of trying to solve real problems,
you look over people's shoulders so you can bust them for bullshit,
you look over people's shoulders so you can bust them for bullshit, like not turning in their reports or whatever.
A gun is only good as its aim, son.
I make sure people can trust our aim.
Just once, it would be nice to think that you actually...
I mean, you're a cop. How do you sleep at night
knowing you watched while a guy like Antony Skomal walked away?
You think I just watched?
If I was a cop and some guy ran over my wife,
I'd be pretty pissed off if his dad paid his way out of jail.
He killed my mom, he nearly beat his girlfriend to death,
and you just sit there saying the same bullshit
-about how people better trust your aim-- -I'm gonna assume you're still raw
by what you saw today at school,
and that's keeping you from thinking before you speak.
I suggest you stop talking.
"Rule 64: Each page of the note contains the power of the whole note."
"Rule 95: Anyone may write names in the note,
but only the keeper can possess it for more than seven days." Jesus!
How many rules does it take to...
"Don't trust Ryuk.
He is not your pet. He is not your friend." -[thunder rumbles] -[train whistle blows]
-[Ryuk] Hey, kid. -Ah!
It's pronounced Ree-yook.
Ryuk.
Oh. Hi.
Sorry for the mispronunciation.
Ryuk, what exactly can I do with thisDeath Note?
What exactly did you have in mind?
Well, it says that I can specify the manner of death.
If I can choose how they die, does that mean I can actually control them?
Every human spends the last moments of his life in the shadow of a death god.
If we so desire, we can influence those moments.
There are, of course, limitations.
"Rule 20:
A subject can be influenced for no more than two days leading up to his death."
Two days? Your fingers are huge.
"Rule 28: Each death must be physically possible,"
so no shark attacks while someone's on the toilet.
As much as I love that idea.
Uh, where did it come from?
[sighs] The history of the note is as long as history itself.
But who gave it to me? I mean, did you give it to me?
The last keeper of the note passed away. It fell to me to find a new one.
-What if I didn't want it? -You may pass it on.
Or better yet, I will.
-How would you do that? -I told you!
When the note is separated from the keeper for seven days,
I find a new one.
Who wrote those warnings about you in the margins?
Oh, is that what we're gonna do with the note, Light? Rules and warnings?
The name and the face is all you have to have.
[Light's father] Turner.
Yeah, no, it's fine. What's going on?
Say that again.
You gotta be kidding me.
All right, yeah. I'll see you in a bit.
All right.
-[knock on door] -Hey.
[Light] Hey, uh, one second.
Come in.
Hey, what you up to?
Uh, just fell asleep on my desk.
I just got a call.
Our friend Antony Skomal is no more.
Impaled himself on a steak knife in the middle of a restaurant.
-Holy shit. -[chuckles] Yeah.
You seem happy.
Probably shouldn't be, but yeah, I am.
Your mom...
she always was kind of a hippy.
And we didn't see eye to eye on everything.
She was damn sure right about one thing.
Karma's a bitch.
Sorry about what I said... you know.
Love you, son.
I love you, too.
[girl] You in mourning?
In... Uh, what?
Our friend Kenny.
Oh, yeah. It's terrible what happened to Kenny.
You don't have to lie to me. Kenny was a sociopath,
and just because he's dead does not make it a tragedy.
-Right. -I just wish I'd seen it.
I heard his head spun all the way around.
Actually, his head exploded into a million pieces.
-In case you're wondering. -You saw it?
-I'm Mia. -Oh, hi.
I know that you're Mia, actually. I already knew that.
I know that you're Light Turner. I already knew that.
Yeah.
You knew that I'm... You know my name?
So are you gonna tell me what you saw, Light Turner?
Why did you get me put into detention?
I'm sorry.
I, uh... thought you could use some medical attention
and I wasn't aware of the fact that you were carrying around
a stockpile of illegal papers in your backpack.
Is that one of them?
Hmm? Oh, no.
"Death Note"? What is it?
-What is what? -Your book.
Uh, I can't tell you.
-Okay. -Do you really want to know?
-Sure. -Okay, then I'll tell you. I just...
Follow me.
Please tell me this isn't your poetry journal.
When you see him, try not to freak out. I freaked out a little.
See... who?
Behind you.
It's okay.
What are you talking about? [Ryuk] Only the keeper of the note can see me.
"The human whose name is written in this note... shall die."
-Your poetry sucks. -It's not poetry.
Um, will you just read the last entry?
"Kenny Doyle decapitation"?
I have, and...
I'm gonna sound crazy, but I have a death god.
-I'm gonna get out of here. -No. No, don't go. Trust me.
You of all people are gonna want to see this.
[female reporter] Authorities received a 911 call...
[Light] Okay, we can work with that.
...overheard a violent argument between Mr. Brode and his ex-wife earlier today.
...overheard a violent argument between Mr. Brode and his ex-wife earlier today. [male reporter] Things escalated,
[male reporter] Things escalated, as several gunshots were also heard, and the situation is still unfolding.
as several gunshots were also heard, and the situation is still unfolding.
Authorities are standing by. Seattle police and Seattle SWAT trying to de-escalate the situation.
Seattle police and Seattle SWAT trying to de-escalate the situation.
[female reporter] This is live coverage of the hostage situation.
-Okay. Watch. -Police are now confirming the hostages
-are Brode's ex-wife and children. -[Ryuk] Hope you know what you're doing.
[male reporter] With his violent history, police are hesitant
about moving in on this situation.
You stupid bitch! You fucking stay there, you snot-nose little douchebag!
[male reporter] It appears that James Brode is exiting the storefront.
[female reporter] It looks like he has released her. That's definitely a good sign.
-[gasps] Holy shit. -[male reporter] Oh, my goodness.
[female reporter] Uh, folks, we are trying to get more information.
I hope no children were watching this.
This is obviously very upsetting footage.
In case you're just tuning in, the man holding his family hostage
just saluted to cameras before being run over by a rogue SWAT truck.
We apologize for these disturbing images...
I killed him.
[Light] I guess I should feel guilty, but I don't.
[Mia] That woman and her kids are only alive right now because of what you did.
What is there to feel guilty about?
Thing is, I know what it's like to get fucked over.
Some asshole killed my mom and...
got away with it until I got this book.
I just keep thinking, I mean, why should it just be for me?
I mean, all the people that make life miserable, make life dangerous...
I can reach them now.
Do you think that I'm crazy?
If anything, I think you're not crazy enough.
-We could change the world. -"We"?
Like "we" as... as in us?
[male reporter] We're getting an update live...
The police are extremely hesitant...
Can I kiss you?
You're not supposed to ask.
What am I supposed to do?
[Light] The note was filled with names when I got it.
Whoever had it before us, what did they accomplish?
Just small-time killings, revenge, petty crimes?
I think we can do a lot more than just settle some random scores.
How about this guy?
I don't want people to say they're scared of it or horrified.
[Mia] What do you want them to say?
[Light] I want them to say... "Thank you."
Look at those people.
-[Mia] They're a bunch of sheep. -[Light] No, they're not.
They're looking for someone who's not gonna let them down
They're looking for someone who's not gonna let them down the way cops do and politicians.
And that's why they have you.
[Light] It's bigger than me. It's bigger than us.
What they want...
is a god.
So let's give it to them.
Let's give them a god, let's make a name for him.
A god that never lets anybody down.
It's not gonna solve a few crimes, it's gonna solve all crime.
[Mia] A god that scares the shit out of the bad guys
until they don't want to be bad anymore?
[Light] A god who inspires hope that things can actually change.
Kira.
Kira? What does that mean?
It means "light" in Russian and Celtic.
Wouldn't you be worried they could trace it back to you?
No. How could they?
It also sort of means "killer" in Japanese,
so if they're looking, it's gonna be on the wrong continent.
[female reporter] Who or what is Kira?
That's the question facing baffled investigators today
as death row inmates in six different continents were found dead in their cells. Each victim left behind the same message written in perfect Japanese.
Each victim left behind the same message written in perfect Japanese.
[Mia] I think I got one.
[reporter in German] Reports are that the previously elusive leader
of the terrorist movement blew himself up in front of his men.
Kira is apparently behind the bizarre deaths.
[reporter in Spanish] Five members of the cartel apparently threw themselves
in front of an oncoming train.
Kira is responsible for all of these acts
that are happening right now.
[man in English] The globalists will have you believe that Kira's the New World Messiah here to right the wrongs of our time.
that Kira's the New World Messiah here to right the wrongs of our time.
This is another bid by the super elites to sweep the rug from under us
and shape our reality by what can only be described
and shape our reality by what can only be described as one of the greatest false flag operations in the history of covert ops.
as one of the greatest false flag operations in the history of covert ops.
[female reporter] Fear they will be punished by Kira
[female reporter] Fear they will be punished by Kira has led to a series of wanted criminals literally turning themselves in.
has led to a series of wanted criminals literally turning themselves in.
Kira's had a bigger impact on crime than anything I've seen.
I don't wanna say our job's gotten easier, but look around you.
[female reporter] News out of Japan tonight where Kira has apparently struck again.
More than a dozen were found dead in a Tokyo nightclub,
a scene authorities described as "incredibly gruesome."
What can anyone tell us about Kira?
And perhaps, more importantly, can anyone stop it?
And should they?
[in Japanese] It makes no sense.
The Nakamuras and the Inagawas have had a truce for over ten years.
How would Kira even know about them?
-[L] Because I tipped him off. -What?
I've had access to law enforcement databases for some time.
I've been seeding the names of obscure criminals,
waiting for a hit.
And now... we know who we're looking for.
[man in English] How long since you've slept?
Forty-one hours.
And you're certain of your conclusions?
Yes. [hums softly]
The insulin spike from the candies will focus your mind for final consideration.
When it fades, you will sleep for one hour.
Wear these to properly prepare your body clock.
I've been contemplating several different strategies.
I honestly don't know that I'll be able to sleep.
-Sleep is key to strong thought. -Yes.
Would you mind singing a song for me?
Of course.
♪ You're out of the woods You're out of the dark ♪
♪ You're out of the night ♪
♪ Step into the sun, step into the light ♪
♪ Keep straight ahead For the most glorious place ♪
[voice fades, echoing] ♪ On the face of the Earth and the sky ♪
♪ Hold onto your breath Hold onto your heart ♪
♪ Hold onto your hope ♪
♪ Walk up to the gate and let it open ♪
Investigation, since when? And why are you just telling me this now?
Because I just got added last week.
Knowing you'd have this sort of calm and thoughtful response,
I can't imagine why I didn't bring it up sooner.
What part of terrorists killing each other
and criminals turning themselves in bothers you, Dad?
Why exactly are they doing that, son?
-They're doing it because of Kira. -Right, and who is that?
How does Kira get to decide who lives and dies, who's guilty and innocent?
Is there a complaints department if I don't like one of Kira's decisions?
Or would complaining get me put on Kira's list?
Is that what everybody at the station thinks?
Well, it's safe to say I'm ahead of the curve on that one.
Hey, how do I look?
-Good. -All right. See you this afternoon.
-Turner. -[man] Just got a call from the FBI.
Apparently, they got someone who wants to speak with you.
-Oh, yeah? And who is that? -They're not really saying.
Just said he helped them out before
and he's got a theory on the Kira situation.
-I just got the case. What does he want? -I have no idea.
They said he's a little different.
In fact, they'll probably send a representative...
[man] Detective Turner?
I am to meet with Detective Turner,
local head of the Kira investigation, in his office at 9:00 a.m.
Call you back.
-What can I do for you? -I am Watari.
Your fellow officers did that?
Cops don't like it when you go after other cops,
but, apparently, they hate it when you go after their god.
They support Kira?
Kira's doing away with the "Most Wanted" list.
These guys wanna throw him a parade.
But now that rumor has it Kira's a cop, it's in my world.
The idea that Kira is associated with law enforcement is not a rumor.
It is a fact,
uncovered by the individual I work with.
-Oh, yeah, and who's that? -He goes by the letter "L."
L is real?
You're familiar?
Yeah, I hear things.
That giant smuggling ring in Eastern Europe,
practically handed to police on a platter.
L would like to speak with you regarding the Kira investigation.
-Okay. When? -Right now.
-[L] Hmm, Detective Turner. -What is this?
A one-time offer.
I'd like to assist you in the capture of Kira.
Why me? The FBI, CIA have hundreds of men on this.
I've been in communication with Interpol and the FBI,
but I believe you have something they do not.
What's that?
An in-depth understanding of potential suspects.
Why would I have a better understanding?
The FBI thinks the killer is operating out of Japan.
Because of the name Kira.
Ah, but the name is an intentional misdirection.
He wants us to believe that he's Japanese, operating a half a world away.
He's not.
Kira's in Seattle.
Shall we help one another?
"Justice for the Wicked." What is this?
It's a site for Kira worshipers.
They put up names of people that deserve to die.
[Light] Holy shit.
[Mia] Rapists, pedophiles,
human trafficking, murder.
This guy killed four people in a house fire.
I don't know. How do we know that it's real?
What do you mean?
What if somebody fucked your girlfriend and you put him on the list to kill him?
What would you do if some guy fucked me?
-[stammers] Oh, I'd kill him. -Yeah?
-Yeah. -You'd kill him?
-Yeah. -You'd kill him?
But that is the reason why we can't kill people based on website rumors.
It's not like that.
These are real people with real problems, and they've been ignored.
They need our help.
[Light's father] Figured you'd be older.
And that I'd be able to see more of your face.
Yes, well, I find I'm not in a very trusting mood these days.
I took the liberty of moving your evidence to a more secure location.
Oh, I can see that. Were you gonna let me know or...?
Wow, this is very, very impressive, James. Your men must be proud.
Ask your partner how my men think about me these days.
So you did all of this yourself?
Even more impressive.
Please, James, have a seat. Rest your glutes.
Mm-mmm. You've made two mistakes.
This is zero day, Kira's first recorded murders.
But previously, on April 15th, convicted felon James W. Brode
had taken his wife and children hostage.
I remember that. You think that was Kira?
[L] Initial speculation was that his behavior was drug-related,
but lost in the ensuing crush of Kira activities
was the fact that Brode's toxicology had come back clean.
The stand-off had never made national news,
and it was only broadcast on local Seattle stations.
-So that's how you knew he was here. -I infiltrated your network
in order to ensure that there hadn't been a data breach.
Prior to my access, the network was intact.
Prior to my access, the network was intact. Did you just hand me evidence you hacked the Seattle P.D.?
Did you just hand me evidence you hacked the Seattle P.D.?
I handed you evidence that whoever Kira is,
they have access to the database from the inside.
Kira's one of ours.
Here's a cross-reference list of officers and their access
as well as the dates of Kira activities.
The Federal Administration has agreed to make resources available to us.
We can begin seeing who was where when.
-What are you gonna do? -I'd like to start by speaking with Kira.
Sure you are. [low chuckle]
-Hey. -Light, turn on the news.
The individual known as Kira,
as I'm sure you're aware, has taken credit for over 400 deaths.
Oh, shit.
While we don't know how he kills his victims,
we do know how he chooses them.
Prior to these deaths,
all of the victims have had their identities released to the media.
This would suggest that Kira is not some omnipotent force.
He's a person...
like you or me.
He is also a coward.
A child wielding power he does not understand,
mistakenly believing in doing so, he's at no risk to himself.
He's wrong.
Kira, if you're watching this, know that I am coming for you.
Unless, of course, you'd like to kill me right now.
Now I'm rooting for this guy.
Would you shut the fuck up?
No?
Well, in that case, Kira,
I shall be meeting you face-to-face very shortly.
Who does this guy think he is?
What the fuck was that?
I have a theory.
Kira cannot kill by simply sight alone.
He needs a name and a face.
Every victim we've seen so far fits this pattern.
So you antagonize him on purpose?
While withholding my identity from the record.
Now, we know that he wants to kill me but is unable.
And what if you're wrong?
Then, James, I'd be dead.
Either way, we'll have gained valuable information.
He always pull this kind of stuff?
[Light] You guys getting close to catching Kira?
Oh, I'd say the haystack's down to a hay pile. Still a lot of hay.
I saw the press conference today.
Who's that guy on TV with the turtleneck?
You like that look? I'm thinking of taking it myself.
Goes by L. He's an independent investigator.
Wow, so you don't even know his real name.
About the only thing I know is he's got some handler named Watari.
Really likes ice cream.
He's connected an awful lot of dots.
Do you think he's connected the dots because he's Kira?
I don't think so.
He has a history of cracking big cases.
Besides, I think you can tell when you're sitting across from a killer like Kira.
Right. Of course.
What happens when they catch Kira?
Well... he's murdered over 400 people,
so, my guess...
it's probably gonna be a fight between those who want to hang him
and those who want to dissect him and figure out how he did it.
-You okay? -Yeah.
You put someone on my kid?
We agreed that everyone with access needed to be thoroughly vetted.
I did not see it prudent to have you investigate yourself.
What? We're not talking about investigating me.
We're talking about having my son followed!
I investigated you prior to offering my assistance
and concluded you are not Kira.
As for your son, he may have access to databases
around which we have centered our search.
Therefore, deserves the same scrutiny as anyone else that fits that criteria.
-No, he's a kid! -Yes.
-A particularly bright kid. -You know what?
If you had any questions about my son, you should've come to me.
[woman] Here you go.
[Light] Even if they're suspicious, I don't see how they can prove it.
I think we just go quiet until they stop following us.
-What do you mean "go quiet"? -Stop fucking around with theDeath Note.
Is that what you think we're doing?
Come on, Light. Just get rid of them. All we need is a name.
-I'm not gonna do that. -Not gonna do what?
-I was talking to Ryuk. -I like this one, Light.
-She has wonderful ideas. -What'd he say?
Ryuk? Not much.
-We're good. They're trying to stop us. -We don't kill innocent people, Mia.
Even if I wanted to, which I don't,
taking out the guy following us will only indicate that it's me.
You'd have to get rid of all the agents, regardless of who they're following.
They wouldn't know who it was,
but they'd know what happens when you fuck with Kira.
-Can't believe you're saying this. -Cant believe you're not.
Then I guess we're really fucking lucky that it's my book.
[female reporter] Kira has been strangely inactive of late,
something authorities are eager to point to
as evidence their investigation is gaining momentum.
However, Kira supporters have begun to criticize police
for suppressing its activities,
as a small but noticeable spike in global crime
has become apparent in the absence of recent activities from the phenomena.
[Light] Are you leaving?
Yeah, I've got some work to do.
There's a guy on the news who killed a couple kids.
I thought maybe we could make some popcorn, take some names down for later.
I'll see you tomorrow.
Director Pearl. These just came in from the field offices.
Tell them to keep surveillance on all the potential--
Assistant Director Pearl is dead. Heart attack, just now.
We need to contact every FBI agent on their team.
This is Franks.
Agent Franks, your team has been compromised.
Drop what you're doing and get to the nearest hospital. Right now.
Agent Franks?
Agent Franks, can you hear me?
[female reporter] Twelve FBI agents mysteriously commit suicide.
Some sources say it was the work of Kira.
This is the first time Kira has attacked law enforcement.
-[Mia] Slow down for one second? -He did it! Son of a bitch killed them.
-Ryuk? -There's so many rules in that thing!
There must be some kind of loophole.
What's he gonna do if you go after him?
Maybe you just need to take a minute and relax
and see if this was the best thing that could've happened.
No.
[Light] Ryuk!
[Ryuk] You think I'm some dog, Light?
You can just snap your fingers and I'll come running? [chewing]
-Did you kill those FBI agents? -What do you think?
I decide who dies, you obey me. Those are the rules.
-Who do you think wrote the rules? -Whose side are you on?
There are no sides, only the game.
And I knew eventually you wouldn't be able to handle playing.
I asked politely, but you didn't hear me.
Let the note go.
Look at the strife it's causing you and your little girlfriend.
Let me find it a new home. We'll be free of each other.
I'm not gonna give the note to you or anybody else,
and if you fuck with me again, I'm gonna put your name in it.
You could try. [laughs]
But I warn you, there are four letters in my name.
Most anyone's ever gotten were two.
[male reporter] We interrupt this to take you live to an announcement...
-What the fuck is he doing? -...by James Turner,
local head of the Kira investigation.
Oh, shit.
Those of you that harbored any illusions about what Kira really is,
the cold-blooded murder of a dozen FBI agents
should lay bare his true nature.
Kira is a cowardly criminal thug concerned only with self-preservation.
Not only is he unworthy
of the veneration and celebration he's received in certain circles,
as of today, he's not even worthy of our fear.
Understand this, Kira.
You may strike me down, but another one will stand up and take my place.
Why would he do that? He's forcing Kira to retaliate.
...and another for as long as need be.
We will not waiver.
-Because he's not afraid. -We will not submit.
And we will not fail.
Where is it?
What? Are you out of your mind? That's my fucking dad!
Yeah, and he just dared us to kill him on live television.
Think people are gonna be on their knees if he can talk to Kira like that?
We're not killing my dad! This is over! Ryuk fucked us!
We're not the good guys anymore.
[Mia] What happened to the boy that wanted the world to get what he got?
Think about your mom, Light.
Either Kira stands up or they hunt us down.
If you want out, then just get the fuck out!
So you just want to quit?
I don't know.
Well said, James. Tell me, are you truly ready to give your life?
If that's what it takes.
How long will it take him to decide, I wonder?
[James] What's going on?
[sighs] Let me take this.
-Turner. -This is L.
Just making sure you hadn't died.
[sighs] Still here.
Excellent. Carry on.
I'm really proud of you.
[James on TV] Understand this, Kira.
-You may strike me down... -Sir?
-...but another will take my place. -Light Turner is Kira.
-And another and another... -How long since you've slept?
-...for as long as need be. -Thirty-one hours.
-We will not waiver. We will not submit. -Sleep is key to strong thought.
-Trust me. -And we will not fail.
Nothing's gonna change once I wake up.
Hello, Light.
You're the guy. You're L.
Yeah, well, it's not my real name.
But I'm sure you're painfully aware of that.
What are you doing here?
Following a lead. You?
Um... I was just... I'm leaving.
I wonder if it was a difficult decision.
If what was a difficult decision?
Sparing your father's life.
Sorry, what are you talking about?
You must've known it would implicate you, yet you couldn't bring yourself to do it.
I'll admit, I always wondered if you had a line.
I guess it's fortunate for us,
the line you finally decided to draw points so clearly in your direction.
-So you really think I'm Kira. -No, I know it.
If you're so sure, why haven't you just arrested me?
Because I don't do check, Light. Only checkmate.
-But we'll be there soon enough. -Great. Until then, enjoy the gelato.
Assuming you can eat through that thing. And I'll just, uh...
Can I ask you something?
Yeah.
How do you think he does it? Kira.
I was hoping you could shed some light on that for me.
I have a theory.
I think that it's some form of remote viewing
coupled with maybe some latent psychic ability of some sort. Am I close?
So you really have no idea, do you?
Well, I have several ideas.
Eventually, you'll tell me which is correct.
What if it turned out that all arresting Kira did
was give that power to someone else, someone potentially much worse.
You're suggesting the ability is somehow transferable.
I'm suggesting maybe what you and the person you're after want
isn't so different.
Maybe they're as ready to see the killing end as you are.
And if that were true, perhaps now would be a good time
to start helping them instead of hunting them.
Helping...
You know what I think, Light? I think you want to make a deal.
Good deals are made by those in a position of strength.
Criminals, such as yourself, never make those deals.
What they do is wait until they're caught and then they beg.
I'm not begging. I'm telling you that you don't understand.
Let me put this in terms you're more familiar with.
A man kills 400 people.
He tells us that it's complicated, that he's misunderstood.
Do you think that Kira would hear his excuses or walk him off a bridge?
Think you're better than me, but you're trying to kill Kira!
-Kira, Kira, Kira! -I do not kill, Light!
I don't even carry a gun, it's distracting.
What I do is bring people to justice.
But the form it takes is their own making. A consequence of their actions, not mine.
You're the one who flew into the sun.
I'm just here to make sure you actually burn.
-Well, if that's how it has to be. -It is, Light!
You know that as well as I do. There are no draws in this game.
-Please, you have to forgive me. -It was my dad, Mia.
If I could take it back, I would. I promise. I was just scared.
Do you think I'm not scared?
I'm a fucking cheerleader, Light.
Nothing I do has ever mattered until I met you.
I made a mistake. If I could take it back, I would. I just...
I wasn't ready to lose you.
I love you.
I love you.
L showed me his face.
I'm gonna get his name, and I'm gonna stop him.
That's Watari. He's L's right-hand man.
If anybody's gonna give us L's real name, it's gonna be him.
All right.
[Light] "Watari becomes obsessed
with revealing the true identity of the detective known as 'L.'
For the next 48 hours, he will cease all communication with the outside world,
except to update what he learns to the number 206-555-0166.
At 7:00 p.m., on October 12th, he dies."
[Ryuk] You didn't say how he dies.
-It doesn't matter, it's dealer's choice. -What?
Huh? Oh, I was talking to Ryuk. Sorry.
-So kill his friend to get his name? -No, I'm not gonna kill Watari.
That's the best part.
Rule 89 says:
"If the person who writes a name destroys its page
prior to the death being carried out, the target will be spared."
So if I burn Watari's page before October 12th at 7:00 p.m...
then nothing bad happens, right, Ryuk?
Only one name can be removed from the Death Note by burning it.
Get this one wrong, you won't get another chance.
I only get one page to burn.
-Hello? -My name is Watari.
-This information is not known to me. -I'm sorry. What do you mean?
I took responsibility for L
only after he left the St. Martin's orphanage in Montauk
where he was one of the Rochester wards.
One of the... Sorry, what is a Rochester ward?
They were orphans trained since childhood
to become the greatest detectives the world had ever seen.
-You've gotta be kidding me. -I am not.
For their first test, the wards were placed in a conditioning vault.
Those who retained their sanity after seven months
were initiated into the program.
L joined at six, the youngest candidate ever.
Okay, but what was his name before the vault or whatever?
That name exists now only in their records.
Okay. Okay. Watari, you need to go there right now.
I should like to rest first.
Sleep is key to strong thought.
No. You don't have any time to sleep. You have 48 hours to get a name.
What happens in 48 hours?
-You just need to go right now. -I will go.
-Leave him alive, it's a loose end. -You don't need to help, Mia.
Of course I do.
I'm not gonna leave you alone in this.
[James] I'm telling you, I wore an actual top hat.
-And was that with your wife or...? -No.
Frankly, she wouldn't have been caught within ten miles of me.
I didn't get this cool until much later.
Hello. Nice to meet you. Leave.
What are you doing here?
We have a critical issue that requires discussion immediately.
-Kids, give us a couple minutes. -Sure.
No, wait, wait, wait.
Not you, Light.
The discussion concerns you.
How?
Watari has disappeared.
I've known him my entire life.
He has not, would not, could not leave without me being sure of his plans.
-Okay, let me make a call. -What is it that you want?
-Sorry, I don't have any idea. -I get that this has got you upset.
Your son is Kira, James!
What? Don't know why you haven't been able to put one and one together,
even despite him having spared your life,
but it does not speak well to your deductive abilities at all.
It's time to leave.
-I'm not going anywhere. -Wanna fucking bet?
I have a search warrant and a team of men outside.
So, as I said, I will be staying. You? You have managed a strong move.
Now, provided that you return Watari to me safely,
I'm willing to put your position of strength into account.
I'm sorry about your friend. I'm sure he'll be fine.
-Damn it! You don't have-- -[both grunting]
You have crossed the line!
Force me to do the same and I assure you you will not survive!
You threaten my son again, I'll fucking kill you!
Get the fuck out of here!
Tear this place apart! Tear it apart!
-You okay? -Mm-hmm.
Yeah.
Has nothing to do with you, son.
I knew he was off the minute I met him.
[Ryuk] You know what happens when they find it.
It ends up my book again, Light.
And guess what name I'm gonna suggest we start with when I find it a new home?
Is there...
anything I need to know?
How do you do it?
-How you handle all this? -What do you mean?
How do you handle having everybody against you? You're screwed either way.
Yeah, one way or another, we're all in the middle.
Things are never black and white.
Sometimes you just...
you just have to choose the lesser of two evils.
[Watari] ♪ And the sky ♪
♪ Hold onto your breath Hold onto your heart ♪
♪ Hold onto your heart ♪
♪ Walk up to the gate ♪
♪ Walk up to the gate ♪
♪ And look up ♪
He's coming out of the house right now. I want a car on him. Every move.
-Hello. -Where are you? What's taking so long?
-I'm on my way to St. Martin's. -Well, how much longer?
I hope to find it within the next few hours.
Find it? You don't know where it is?
It was never intended to be a place that was easily accessed.
Okay, just hurry.
[woman over PA] This is a reminder.
Time is running out to purchase your Winter Dance tickets.
-Hey. -This is for tonight.
Also comes with this. You're really gonna stand out.
You really think I give a shit about Homecoming?
[whispers] Look in the hat.
They're never gonna stop following you.
We're gonna end this once and for all, but I need you to trust me.
-Can you do that? -Yeah.
What do you want, Light?
You're not some sadist.
There's always some flimsy justification, some reason that...
Get me the New York field office. Now!
I've asked Brandon here to dance with me for one. Is that cool with you?
Hey. Where are you?
I've located the records room, but need more time.
Only got a few minutes. Is it there or not?
I am confident it is here, but I cannot yet say where.
Fuck it. Fuck it. Fuck it. Forget it. Just forget it.
No! Mia, what did you do? Where's the page?
-Watari, you have to run right now! Okay? -[man] Watari!
You have to run away as quick as you can!
-Someone's here. -Okay...
Just go to them right now and ask for their help.
I am obsessed with revealing the true identity of...
Yes. It's here.
-What does it say that it is? -L's true name...
-What does it say? What is L's real name? -[officer] Sir! Answer me!
Are you Watari?
-I am Watari. -Watari.
Fuck! Fuck!
[Ryuk] Ah, you said dealer's choice.
Why didn't you tell me the page was missing?
But then what would you and Mia have to talk about?
I told you I like her a lot, Light.
I know you're probably upset...
but if you freak out, they're gonna be all over us, -and that's not gonna end well. -You killed him.
-and that's not gonna end well. -You killed him.
[Mia] No, Light.
I saved you...
from yourself again.
Because every time things get hard, you leave me to do the real stuff.
Oh, my God, it was all you.
Ryuk never found a loophole. You were the loophole.
You don't get to feel superior for being a pussy.
I did what I had to do... to protect us.
"Agent Raymond Young...
will write the names of all the other agents of the Kira task force
in the Death Note, placing each of their faces in his mind as he goes.
When he's done, he will join them in climbing to a rooftop
and leaping to his death."
If you want out, you're out. All I need is for you to give me the book.
Are you insane? Do you think that I'd ever let you near that thing again?
You didn't read it.
What did you do?
"Light Turner's heart stops beating at midnight."
No... you're trying to kill me?
You're going to officially pass the book to me.
Then once I'm the keeper...
I'll burn your page.
That's why I couldn't let you save Watari. You can only burn one name and...
I wanted it to be yours.
There are so many fucking rules.
Now go get my goddamn book.
Did you find Watari?
This is Detective Turner.
I want every unit looking for the individual known as L.
He should be considered armed and dangerous.
And I want my son put in protective custody until he's located. Now!
Let's go! This way! Move, move!
-Fuck! -[officers chattering]
[officer over radio] Be on the lookout for Light Turner,
last seen in the vicinity of North Seattle High.
Hey!
Light!
[man] Hey, asshole!
Move! Move! Move! Move!
Hold it right there! Stop! Repeat...
[man] Hey!
[man] Whoa! Hey!
Hey!
Sorry! Sorry! Sorry!
-[L] Light! -Ah!
Wait! Wait! Wait!
Didn't I clearly explain what would happen if Watari wasn't safely returned to me?
Wait! You need to understand how it works, okay? Or you can't stop it!
I couldn't stop it! Death can be handed out through a fucking calculus book!
-You're stalling! -No, I'm not! I swear I'm not, okay?
I'm just gonna turn around really slowly.
Okay. I'm gonna reach into my bag.
Don't move! Do not move!
This man is Kira. I'm working with law enforcement.
-In order to capture and eliminate-- -[man grunts]
Lord Kira.
Yeah. Yeah.
Come on! Let's go! Come with me!
Where the fuck is the book, Light?
-Come on! -We're actually closed, guys.
Take us to the top! Nobody else gets on, hear me?
Here. Want the book? Get in!
-What the fuck is your problem? -Take us to the top! Now!
Hit the button!
[Light] We gotta stop doing this. We gotta stop doing all of this.
It's already done!
Let's run away together and never use the Death Note again.
[Mia] I don't want to run away!
Now give me my fucking book, okay?
Take it! But...
just remember what it's done. Not just out there, but to us.
If you love me...
If you love me, then you gotta trust me.
Don't take the book.
Because if you do...
you'll never see me again.
I love you so much.
You do?
-Light! -Dad?
Light!
No!
What?
What?
What did you do?
You put my name in it, didn't you?
It was if you took the book. I thought I could convince you not to.
Are you kidding me, Light?
-You put my name in the book! I got mad. -Are you kidding me?!
You said you love me! I thought you wouldn't take the book!
Light!
Light! Light!
-[Mia screams] -[Light] Oh, shit!
Ryuk! I take it back! I take it back!
Here, just hold on! Don't let go!
Please don't let me go! Don't let me fall!
Four new killings.
And every one of them identified by the news media in the last 48 hours.
I understand you think this means Light cannot be Kira.
You think he's knocking people off while in a coma?
I'm not exactly sure how it is--
Apparently, you have enough highly-placed allies to keep you out of jail.
But none of that's gonna help you if we see you around.
[Light] Wait, you need to understand how it works, okay, or you can't stop it!
I couldn't! Death can be handed out through a fucking calculus book!
Was there a calculus book seized at Light Turner's house?
Did he even take Calculus?
Okay, what about his, uh... his girlfriend?
Don't take off!
Come in.
Hey, Dad.
What's wrong?
It was you.
All along.
What are you talking about?
In your room.
At first, I couldn't figure out how or why it'd gotten out of my safe.
Then it hit me.
James Brode wasn't the first victim.
It was Antony Skomal.
How?
Do you really want to know?
[Light] Dr. Norman Ludlam,
known for sexually assaulting female patients under sedation.
On the night of October 12th, Norman Ludlam is present at the pier
when two individuals fall from the Northwest Ferris Wheel.
He rescues the male suspect from the water
and manages to revive him, saving his life.
Using his connections at the hospital,
Ludlam keeps the suspect in a medically-induced coma for two days.
At the end of this period, he leaps to his death from the roof of the hospital.
Aaron Peltz. Mailman, retired.
Molested nearly a dozen children over the span of 20 years.
Peltz retrieves the Death Note from the river on October 12th.
Each night, Peltz fills in the blanks with the name of criminals
who appear on the news.
On day two, he returns the Death Note to the Kira suspect,
and then commits suicide.
♪ When the world outside's Too much to take ♪
Mia Sutton is killed when she accepts the Death Note from her boyfriend.
As the Northwest Ferris Wheel mysteriously collapses...
she pulls the page with my name on it from the note.
And it is ultimately consumed by fire.
Although her boyfriend lands safely in the water...
Mia strikes the shoreline...
dying instantly.
I made a lot of mistakes.
And then I tried to fix them, but it didn't work.
I thought it was simple at first: I was just gonna kill all the bad guys
and the good guys would win, but it wasn't like that. ♪ Whenever you reach for me ♪
It's like you said...
sometimes you gotta choose the lesser of the two evils.
Which one are you, son?
-Oh, my God! -What happened, Alexa?
Cameron Drake wants to meet you in the boys' cabin at midnight...
to make out!
With me?
[Alexa] Yeah!
-Wanna make out? -Um, okay.
Pig kisser!
Pig breath.
-[laughing] -[girl] Get closer!
Hey, guys. I'm Alexa Medina, and this is Hashtag Reality High.
High school was mad stressful, so Katsuya and I decided to...
-Tell your sister to turn that off. -Mom says turn that crap off.
-I can't believe you watch that show. -The show is not crap.
-You're saying that because it's Alexa. -The show is crap because it's Alexa.
Would you just get over it?
So...
are you ready for your scholarship interview?
The one that determines if I get into my dream school?
I take that as a yes.
Yes. But I'm super nervous.
Fiona is a UC Davis grad and is writing you a recommendation.
-That should help, right? -I hope so.
Ooh, you should wear my chocolate-brown pantsuit to your interview.
Holy Hillary Clinton, she's not wearing that.
-Do not hate on that outfit. -Whatever, I gotta go get Freddie.
Always a treat. See you guys later.
[man] Ah! -Bye, Grams! -Good luck, honey!
Be nice to the neighbors, okay?
-Thank you. -[indistinct] Oh, you are welcome.
What are you doing?
-It's my turn to choose! -I can't take more Taylor Swift, D.
-Admit it! I have better taste than you. -No, you don't.
-Yes, I do. -No, you don't.
-You wanna prove it? -No, you don't!
[man] Nice job, Cam!
-Whoo! -[man] All right, Cam, great work!
Let's go!
The bleachers are the best place to work out.
Thanksgiving came early this year.
[man] Oh! [man 2] Oh, my God.
It's just me and my car.
I have way more money than the average person. What's up?
-[camera clicks] -[chuckles] Yo, I...
You're getting in the way of my shot.
Please, will you tag me?
-Get over it. -[makes retching sound, screams]
[man] Broussard, get out of my car, man!
Shit!
[woman] Come on! Okay.
Are you thinking about going to the Bonfire?
Oh, no, I don't like going to those things.
-They're dumb. -You and I could go. So let's do it.
Are you ready for your interview?
I better be. They only give out five scholarships.
-Those are shitty odds. -Yes, I'm well aware of that, thank you.
-I heard he kicks puppies. -Shut up.
-"Shut up, Freddie." [chuckles] -Let's go, kids. Make it a great day!
Okay, well, I'll see you later.
A-ha, genius. -It plays? -Mm-hmm.
You sure?
Fuck my life.
Nice poster.
Thanks.
-[man] Let me turn this up, there! -[Cameron] Yo!
-Hey. -Yo!
Awesome.
Attention! Attention!
Reminding everyone about the upcoming pep rally!
Go Cougars!
Come cheer on our returning state swim champs,
led by captain and Olympic hopeful,
-Cameron "The Dolphin" Drake! -[man] Dolphin, baby!
[woman imitates dolphin] Look at those muscles! Ow!
-Also, you guys. -[feedback whines]
One more time...
-Yes, Alexa? -Can you move?
You're in my shot.
Sorry, yeah, sure.
We'll edit her out in post.
Excuse me, Miss Medina, but no dogs allowed on school property.
Katsuya is my service dog. I have severe anxiety.
The Americans with Disabilities Act states
I'm allowed to have an emotional support dog.
-Do you have a problem with dogs -[dog growling]
or disabled people or both?
My nine million followers would love to know.
Of course not, that's ridiculous.
I love dogs and disabled people.
-That explains your wife! -Strike two, Broussard!
I'll talk to you later.
See you in detention.
-What up, bitches? -[all] Hey.
-Oh, my gosh. -Aww.
-Hey, babe. -[dog barks]
-I can't believe pig face wouldn't move. -Give her a break.
Whatever. I have a shoot today, and Katsuya is stressing me out.
You said she was an emotional support dog.
[man] Uh, shut up, Shannon.
Hi, puppy.
You know what? I'll take him.
It's just you and me today, Fluffy Combs.
-I hate it when you call him that. -Yeah, well, Fluff Daddy loves it.
All right, I'll see you guys tonight.
-Cute outfits. -Bye.
Whatever. Um... Oh!
Later, babes.
-Dude! -She just kissed the dog and not you.
Whatever.
[woman]Great work.
You should cheat off him next time.
There you go.
Excuse me, Ms. Savage. Does this belong to you?
I found him wandering the halls sniffing this magic marker.
This is an outrage, and I deny all charges.
Have a seat, Mr. Broussard.
Come on, Broussard. [grunts]
Take a seat. Stop licking the board.
Thank you, Principal Dixon.
You're welcome. And, Broussard, I'm watching you.
-Thank you. -There you go.
Ugh! Whatever.
Deejays don't need history. We've got style.
Uh, yes, but you do need to graduate.
Good work as always, Miss Barnes.
-[laughs] -Oh, yes, haha.
-[phone chimes] -Good grades are hilarious.
Dani, I don't think that is what they're laughing at.
What?
-They're gloves for your feet? -But they're ergonomic.
-Dani, they're feet gloves. -[man] They're feet gloves.
Hi, bud. Okay.
-Ah, man, what happened to Hodor? -He tore his Achilles.
The surgery's gonna cost like five grand.
Oh, buddy.
I don't know how, Buddy, but we're gonna figure it out. Okay?
-I gotta take him down. -Oh, here.
I got him. Come here.
[grunting and muttering] Oh, okay. Yeah.
-Light as a feather. Oh, jeez. -[dog barks]
-Get him. -Okay, I'll find him.
-[laughs] -I'll go find him. See ya.
-So weird. -Dani?
Cameron!
What are you-- what are you doing here?
The lady in the front told me to come back here.
It's Katsuya. He ate like half a chocolate bar.
Here, let me look at-- Put him on the table.
And hold him around the neck there.
-You're okay. -[dog cries]
There you go. That's good.
And just hold him, and I'm just gonna feel...
Wow, you really know what you're doing.
-[chuckles] -It's pretty cool you volunteer here.
I just...
I really like animals!
I got my dog from here.
Oh. What kind of dog?
Well, his name is Tyrion.
-Mm-hmm. -He's a terrier.
He likes to eat my retainer. [chuckles]
I don't wear a retainer.
-Yeah, you do. What? -[woman] What?
It glows in the dark.
Freddie, go clean the kennels.
-Hi there. -Hey.
I see you've met our best and prettiest volunteer.
I have. Um, I mean, she's been really, really helpful.
Fantastic.
How's our furry friend?
His vitals are normal.
-I think he's gonna make it. -Let's have a listen, huh?
Oh, yes, Katsuya, very strong.
-[sighs] -And you look great, too.
Good job, Dani.
Keep him away from the chocolate.
-Thanks, Doc. -He's fine. You can say it right now.
-Just go. -[phone rings]
Oh! Got a Wink.
Ooh, six-foot-yes!
Uh, hey, um, thanks for everything?
I'd love to buy you a burger for helping me out.
She doesn't eat meat.
Okay, okay, cool.
They got other stuff, too. You know? No meat. [chuckles] I get it.
-Think about it. -Bye.
"Oh, come on, girl, let's just like, go eat food."
Freddie. Freddie!
[laughing] That is just...
inappropriate.
-What's up? -What? Uh, nothing.
-Did you see a spider? Oh! -No, I meant the... bag.
[chuckles] This. Of course. This is for your interview.
-What? -Just a little thank you
for all of your help with the adoption event.
Thank you.
You didn't have to do that.
Well, first impressions go a long way.
-Fiona. -Mm-hmm.
If a guy...
asks you out for a burger, does that mean that he likes you?
-Did Cameron ask you out? -I don't know. He...
He has a girlfriend.
He has a girlfriend. I-- I...
Doesn't matter. Are they married? For all you know, he's polyamorous.
I'm getting off track. The point is, he wants to buy you food.
That means he likes you.
Most guys call after the kitchen closes for last call, well drinks.
-What's a well drink? -It doesn't matter.
Hopefully you'll never have to understand.
Just take it from a-- [coughs] year-old woman,
single, who's waiting for Winks, that when the hottest guy in high school
single, who's waiting for Winks, that when the hottest guy in high school asks you out, you say "yes."
Okay, thank you.
You're welcome.
That cannot be real.
-[Cameron] I got a better question. -[man] All right.
-[Cameron] Lindsay Lohan... -Okay.
or Hilary Duff?
-Lindsay Lohan. -What?
You're crazy, man.
-Nikes or Adidas? -Uh, Nikes.
-Got any fries with that shake? -Not for you.
Don't look now. I think Holly was checking for me.
Bro, why don't you just ask her out?
-I'm working on something. -What? Facial hair?
-[chuckles] That's your big plan? -Yeah.
I'm not trying to sound like Vinny,
but how in the hell is a hooptie gonna help you get Holly?
That doesn't sound like me. I call it a shit-box.
-Yo! -Yeah.
Clearly I'm gonna fix it up.
I heard Holly went out with Dingleberry 'cause she loved his old school.
So, it's a sign.
-Of what? That she's shallow? -Says the man dating Alexa Medina.
-Oh! -Oh! Got you there. All right, look. Okay, okay, Alexa's not that bad.
-[chuckles] -She does stuff like, when she volunteered at that hospital.
Were the cameras there?
[chuckles] Man, just admit it.
You're with her 'cause she's the hottest girl in school.
You're the hottest guy in school, next to me. All right?
Like Darwin said, "Hot people are supposed to have sex with each other."
-That's not what Darwin said. -That's not even close.
Whatever, man. It's science.
Yeah, my point is just I think me and Holly were kinda meant to be.
[Vinny] Why don't you just buy her a six-pack?
-[Cameron] Why are we friends? -[Vinny] What? Chicks love six-packs.
[Dani] I think I'm gonna pee in my pants.
This is a bad idea.
You don't have the best track record with these people, Dani.
Maybe we should just go back to my place.
Gram is making a mean White Russian.
Be fun.
Okay, Alexa isn't here.
I think I can do this.
And also, I really have to pee.
So I'm just gonna use the washroom.
Okay, well, I'll be here.
I'll be waiting.
Okay, dude.
It's now or never. Just say...
Dani.
Open doors much?
It's not her fault. She's used to doggy doors.
What are you doing here?
Don't you spend your nights at the kennels with the other bitches?
Come on, guys, let's go. Everybody's waiting.
Cameron told me what you did for Katsuya.
Stay away from my boyfriend and my dog...
pig breath.
Danielle...
for like f...
Hey, so I was, uh, thinking that maybe...
Save it. We don't have to stay.
What?
Why?
-Wait, why? What happened? -It doesn't matter. I want to go home!
Okay.
I'm sorry. This was a bad idea. I shouldn't have dragged you here.
No, no, it's fine.
It's fine, let's just, let's get out of here.
It's good.
[Freddie] Sure you don't wanna come up?
[Dani] I just want to go to bed.
Uh, first I gotta tell you something.
-What? -I... uh...
-I just got my first paying gig! [laughs] -Freddie!
-Yeah. You gotta come. -That's amazing!
It's just a bar mitzvah, but get this,
Calvin Harris' agent's son used to be best friends with the kid.
Okay.
[chuckling] The son of the agent of the deejay you're obsessed with...
-might be at the party? -Okay, you joke, but this could be huge.
-Of course I'll be there. -Good.
'Cause I also need a ride.
-[scoffs] Oh, my... -[laughs]
Freddie?
Thank you.
I'll see you tomorrow. [chuckling] Okay.
Stupid.
Stupid.
What?
"Go fund me."
"My name is Alexa Medina,
-and I'm a huge slut." -[door opens]
Dad!
-Close the door! -So sorry!
Why are you on Facebook? And why are you doing your hair?
-Get out. -Fine.
But you should know your GoFundMe campaign is not gonna work.
What? Why?
Because you have two friends: me and Grandma.
I don't have any money, and Grandma is dead.
-So what do I do? -You're so hopeless.
I'll share it for you.
But you need to get some friends and a new phone.
-Father. -Daughter.
Oh. You're doing your hair.
Yes.
First impressions go a long way.
-OM effing G! -Watch your effing mouth!
You're not gonna believe this. Alexa broke up with Cameron last night,
You're not gonna believe this. Alexa broke up with Cameron last night, -and guess who she's dating! -[coughing]
-[mom] Breathe. -[Taylor] Fousey.
I love this guy. Everyone's saying it's so she can get followers.
-[chuckles] -[mom] Breathe.
And you're...
telling me this why?
Just saying. Sweetie, you've had a crush on Cameron since the fourth grade.
Sweetie, you've had a crush on Cameron since the fourth grade.
-Mm-hmm. -[scoffs] What? I have not.
Yes, you have. Remember that song we used to sing?
♪ Cameron, Cameron ♪
-We're singing the Cameron song! -We are.
♪ Cameron, Cameron ♪
-Okay, that's enough. Thank you, I get it. -♪ Cameron, Cameron ♪
I don't have time for this. I have to get ready for my interviews.
♪ Cameron, Cameron, Cameron, Cameron ♪
[man] Rise and shine, champ!
You can't qualify for the Olympics cuddled up in bed with your blanket.
[groans] I don't feel good, Dad.
Hmm. You think Michael Phelps only trains when he feels good? Mnh-mnh.
The best thing for a broken heart is distraction.
Now get your ass up out that bed and into that suit!
I don't have a broken heart.
Really?
You know she dumped you for Fousey, right? That's that YouTube guy.
I never seen you in yoga pants, but you might not win the champ--
How did you even know about this? We broke up eight hours ago.
Ah. Lana follows Alexa on The Gram.
Jesus! Everybody at school's gonna be talking about this. Mnh-mnh-mnh. So let's give them something else to talk about.
Mnh-mnh-mnh. So let's give them something else to talk about.
Look, son. First loves...
they don't mean shit.
Nice, Dad.
Yeah.
[gasps] I know something that's gonna cheer you up.
Lana's little sister just got dumped, too.
-You do realize that's my aunt, right? -[chuckles] Step-auntie. Lana!
What's up, babe?
I was thinking we could hook Cam up with Piper.
[gasps] O-M-G!
You guys would have, like, the cutest babies ever.
Piper's hot.
I've dated hot girls, Dad.
Maybe I want a girl that's more than just... hot.
[Freddie] Whoa.
Is that a good whoa?
My interview is in ten minutes, and Fiona got me this outfit.
-And I don't-- -[hip-hop music playing]
-Freddie! -[inhales sharply] What?
I said, do I look okay?
Oh, you, you look... like a model.
I'm gonna go to my locker.
So weird.
Hey, Dani.
Oh. Uh. Hey. You look really nice.
[chuckles] Thanks. I have a really important scholarship interview.
We missed you at Biggie's.
Oh, yeah. I, um, I... we were crazy busy at the clinic. Ah. You didn't miss anything. You know.
Ah. You didn't miss anything. You know.
Except for, uh, what TMZ is reporting as the most epic high school break up.
Yeah.
That was insensitive. I shouldn't have said that.
-No. It's fine, you know. -Sorry.
It's cool. Yeah.
I still owe you a burger.
Veggie burger, that is, yeah.
I'm having a party Saturday. If you're around, you should come.
Um... yeah.
-Oh? -Yeah. I think I could probably...
-Oh. -Ooh. I didn't...
I wanted to make sure that was closed. Okay.
-I think I could swing that. Mm-hmm. -It's at noon.
-I'll see you then? -Cool! I will see you then.
-See you then, right? Yeah. -Cool.
-Oh. -Yeah.
-Your class this way? -I'm, uh...
[stammers] No. I forgot my paper clips,
-so I'm just gonna... -Paper clips.
-Yeah. -That's-- yeah.
-[Dani stammers] I broke my stapler. -Oh, what's up?
Hi.
-Hey, Lily. -You're a very brave boy, very brave.
And... voilà, like that.
That guy will never have to pay puppy support.
-Oh, my God, guess what. -You aced your interview.
-No. I mean, yes, uh, they loved me. -Ah!
-Fantastic! -But that's not it.
Cameron Drake asked me out for real.
That is fan-fricking-tastic!
-Right? -No!
I don't have anything to wear.
I can't wear my interview outfit to a party.
-No, no, no, no, no. -My dad gave me his credit card.
You have come to the right place.
I...
I'm going to make you look like the hottest person at that party,
Hello?
Hello?
Wow, you look really nice.
Thanks.
Uh, the party's this way.
Come on.
I did tell you this was a pool party, right?
Hey, Dani! Prom's not for three months!
-Holy God. -Don't listen to him.
-[stammers] -I got you.
Come on. Let's go.
No, he's right.
I look like NeNe Leakes on Dancing with the Stars.
No, no, no. I don't agree with that.
Oh, my God, is that Never-Been-Dicked Dani?
-She looks kinda hot. -[camera shutter clicks]
Let's see what Alexa thinks.
-Are you 21? I'm just kidding. -Yeah.
Here you go. Yeah, you like that? Get out of here.
-What's up? -Hey, there he is!
-What's up? You guys remember Dani? -What up?
-Hey! Dani. -Dani.
Dani.
-Cameron here has been waiting for you. -Ah, whoa. I like that dress.
Yeah, you want some?
-Uh, maybe later. -Come on. It's early.
It's early.
All right. More for me.
-Enjoy. -Save me some.
Yeah, maybe.
You guys have fun, all right?
Yeah.
Him and Dani though?
-Right? -Golly.
Hey! Hold my legs. Come on, let's do this!
-All right. -I'm the Kegenator!
Yo, Jimbo! Come over here, put this thing in my mouth!
-Kegenator. Let's do this. -Three, two, one. Here we go.
Yeah, baby!
[gulps] [Austrian accent] I love beer!
Drown that bitch.
Oh, hey, Dani.
OMG, perfect.
I hate you.
We're gonna play beer pong.
-Holly, you wanna come? -Oh! Yeah. Hold this.
Thank you.
-[Cameron] Shannon. -Yeah?
Holly needs a partner.
-How do I, like... -I mean, you can throw right here.
-You can go and bounce. Either way. -You make it in, we give the balls back.
Kiss it.
Mnh-mnh. It's our turn now.
Mnh-mnh. It's our turn now. Well, I kinda suck. [laughs]
-You were supposed to be... -It wasn't even your turn.
-[laughs] -[Cameron] Okay.
Carry on.
Bye!
Bye!
See you later, bro.
The water's nice.
Want to jump in?
Oh. No, thanks.
You sure? You can borrow one of Lana's suits.
I can't swim.
-Really? -[laughs]
Let me teach you.
-I'm kinda good at it. I'm a'ight. -Oh, wow!
Handsome and humble.
You think I'm handsome?
This can't be right.
-Oh! -Oh, Jesus!
-Freddie! -What is on your face?
-I'm getting ready for a date. -With who? A war chief?
-[growls] -It's called contouring and highlighting.
-What do you want? -Have you seen Dani?
Didn't she tell you? I gave her the day off to go to Cameron's party.
Oh, yeah, right.
Um, that was today. Great. I'll just...
-I'll just give her a call. -Okay.
For the record, Lana doesn't own any one pieces.
-[chuckles] -Just to warn you.
Hi.
Now kick.
-[chuckling] Continuously. -Oh.
I knew that.
You have to relax your body.
You mean like this?
No, I mean like this.
[laughing] Oh, yeah, that was way better.
-Okay. -Congratulations.
Okay, okay.
Back to work.
Where are we going?
You trust me?
[laughing] I guess so.
-What? -Uh, nothing. [chuckles] I'm just...
wondering why we've never hung out before.
Why do you think? Your girlfriend.
Ex-girlfriend.
[chuckles] I just don't get it.
Like, you're so nice and she's just...
-Alexa? -What?
Look... [exhales sharply]
I know she was mean to you before, but she was just jealous.
Of me? Why?
Because she knew I had a crush on you.
Oh. What? I--
Ooh, I got ya. I got ya. -[chuckles] I got you. -[gasps]
-I got you. -[laughs]
[Lana] Cam!
Honey, hi.
Where does your dad keep the weed?
[sighs] I don't know.
I didn't even know he smoked, so...
-I'm sorry. -Lana... Wait, wait. I got you.
You okay?
That was the most fun I've had in the water in a long time.
Well, you're a good teacher.
Well, you're a good student.
A few more lessons and you'll be ready to swim in the ocean at the Bonfire.
I wasn't really planning on going to that thing.
That thing?
That thing is a senior rite of passage.
There's dope music. People are drinking and dancing on the sand.
When it gets late, everyone cuddles up next to the bonfire to get warm.
It's awesome. You got to go.
Do I?
Yes. Everyone goes.
Okay, um...
-Yeah. -Okay.
You should go. You should definitely...
-I'm gonna go. -[car sputtering]
Yeah.
-Thank you. It's just my car is... -Everything work?
-No, it's fine. -Okay.
-It's sometimes the circuit is... -Oh!
Cool, cool. Yeah, just, um...
-get home safe and hit me. -I had a lot of fun.
-I had so much fun. -Yeah, me, too.
I'm glad you came.
Okay.
-Uh... Your lights. Lights. -Oh, sh--
Oh, my God.
-There it is. It's not raining. -Yeah, I got--
[Shannon] Yo, are you serious?
No, so you bring up the Senior Bonfire,
you tell her she has to go, you know everyone's bringing a date,
and yet you don't ask her?
-I know. -What?
I know, I messed up. I'm not used to this.
She's not Alexa.
[sighs] Thank God.
[Shannon] She's a normal person.
She's deeper than Alexa.
She probably cares about things like thinking and feeling.
Yo, you might actually have to put in some work on this one.
You're right. I'm gonna ask her out.
I got this.
Got you, got you.
[chuckles] Thank you.
You're welcome.
So did you catch Neil deGrasse Tyson's TED Talk?
Uh, no.
Wow, it was so enlightening.
I'll have to check it out.
[grunts] Thank you. [chuckles] You're welcome.
I called ahead to make sure they have veggie burgers.
Oh, that's very sweet of you. Thank you.
No prob.
So, um, you know, I was thinking.
-You know, uh... -[Alexa] Hey, Cameron.
Oh, hey.
This is my boyfriend Fowsee.
[laughs] You're cute, babe.
-Fousey. Nice to meet you. -You, too.
Fousey?
Oh, my God! My sister's a huge fan of yours.
Oh, my God! My sister's a huge fan of yours. Everyone is. He has like ten million followers.
Everyone is. He has like ten million followers.
Uh, 12.7, but who's counting, right?
Oh, she would kill me if I didn't get a photo with you. Do you mind?
Let's do it. Make sure you get my ass in the shot.
-Of course. -Ready?
-All right. -♪ Back, back ♪
-♪ Back it up ♪ -You're so funny.
[Dani] Do it. Sorry.
-♪ Back it up ♪ [chuckles] -Cool.
-[Dani] Awesome! -[Fousey] Tag me.
-Most boring diary ever. -[phone chimes]
Oh, my God!
That's Fousey with sis.
[Cameron chuckles] I hope that wasn't too weird earlier?
-This is what I really wanted to show you. -You do know I've seen the ocean before.
All right, smarty pants.
Have you seen this?
Oh, my God.
Pretty cool, huh?
What is it?
Bioluminescent plankton.
Normally you'd need a microscope to see it, but we're in an algal bloom.
Dope, huh?
[Dani] It's beautiful.
I mean, dope.
-[chuckles] -How do you know so much about this?
I've been into this since I was a kid.
As corny as it sounds, my dream is to study marine biology.
I even applied to UCLA because of their program.
It's not corny.
You're lucky.
You found two things you love.
What was that?
I love swimming.
But if I had to choose, I'd definitely choose this.
Why do you have to choose?
My dad.
He wants me to go to the Olympics then take over his dealership.
If I told him I wanted to go to school, he'd lose his shit.
Oh.
If you know in your heart what you want to do...
you should just tell him.
I'm sure he'll get it.
You're the first person I've ever brought here.
[laughs] I must be special.
You are.
I'd love for you to go to the Bonfire with me.
[clears throat] I'm-- Yes. I'm a huge fan of fire, so, that'd be...
Taylor!
Yes?
Quit reading my diary! And eavesdropping at my door.
I wasn't!
I just happened to be walking by, with your new phone.
I had an upgrade.
Wait, how do you know my password?
Come on. "Puppies, one, two, three?"
Hey.
-[Dani laughing] -This is it. All right.
-All right. -Soak him. Look at you. Very professional.
-Gonna be a lot of hair. -[laughs]
You wanna know Shannon's first kiss? Tell them.
It was Miss Spring Fling, 2002...
Oh, my God, did you hear?
What?
-Fousey dumped Alexa? -Shh! Nobody knows yet.
[man] Unbelievable!
Hey!
Thank God.
Thought I was gonna have to start digging holes to find you.
-Nice to see you, Freddie. -[clears throat]
Wow, got a new phone, too.
What's that supposed to mean?
Nothing. Never mind.
I was just, uh, texting you to remind you about the Bar...
Bar Mitzvah?
Yes, I remember.
Saturday at seven. I wouldn't forget your first paying gig.
-Or the fact that you need a ride. -Good.
-I was thinking after the Bar Mitzvah... -Dani!
-...you and I can go to Biggie's together. -Hi!
-...you and I can go to Biggie's together. -Hi! How you doing?
-[chuckles] -Hey, Freddie! Hey! What's up, bro?
-Yeah, those some nice shoes. -Oh, uh, thank you.
Yeah. Oh, I got something for you.
It's...
-What is it? [gasps] -It's for Hodor.
-I thought it may cheer him up. -My gosh.
How's his fundraiser going? Well, with your donation of $100,
we now have $100. [chuckles]
-It's all good. You'll get there. -Yeah, it's all good, yo.
See, he got it.
That's the sound of math class right there.
May I escort you to class?
Bye, Freddie.
-Bye! -Bye, Freddie. Good luck at the pep rally.
-You got it. -Yeah. "Good luck at the pep rally."
-[Cameron] Huh? -Uh, nothing, I just said thanks! All right.
Everybody, let's give a warm welcome
to the Vista Valley High School cheerleaders!
Come out, ladies. Looking good!
Come on! Make some noise!
Yeah! Come on, Cougars.
Yeah! Valley Vista!
Valley Vista! Yes! Go Cougars!
All right, ladies!
Freddie.
Freddie!
Kill the music!
Turn the lights on!
-[crowd booing] -Thank you, ladies.
All right. Thank you, ladies. That's enough.
Thank you, ladies and Randy.
Suck my Dixon!
Strike three, Broussard. My office! Now!
I did it for you!
-[Dixon] Go on! -I did it for you!
Go on! Keep it moving. Get out of here.
-I'm watching you. -Yes, sir.
[clears throat] Figure it out.
All right! Let's give it up, yo, one more time
for the Crazy Horse cheerleaders!
Oh, and here's our cheer captain Kimmy! [high-pitched laugh]
[giggles] Thank you.
What is up, Cougar fans?
Don't forget to sign up for the Senior Bonfire committee.
-There will be a barbecue, a bake off... -And hopefully the rest of Kimmy's dance!
[chuckles] All right?
And now the moment you've all been waiting for.
It's time to bring out some dudes who love getting wet in their underwear.
You know them as your returning state champs.
I know them as dudes who get praised for doing something I learned at age five.
Let's bring out the freshman fish!
-[crowd cheering] -Here they are! Come on down! Whoo!
Yeah!
Hopefully a little faster in the water than they are on the court. Huh? Yeah.
All right, who's ready?
Time to make these little heads bald, shiny...
I see you saved me a seat.
[stammers] Oh, actually, this seat is taken.
I get it. You're pissed.
But the good news is I'm done with Fousey and...
I'm going to take you back.
Actually, I'm not pissed.
And it's exactly what I said, someone else is sitting here.
-Hi. -Oh.
-Hi. -[Freddie] Whoo!
Everybody, look! Alexa's standing in the way of love!
[Dixon] Broussard, get back to my office and stay there!
Miguel, Holly.
-We want to watch the pep rally. -Yeah.
[Freddie] And now for the sophomore ritual.
[chanting] Shave! Shave! Shave! Shave! Shave! Shave!
[Taylor] If your friend posts a picture and she's really your friend, you have to respond with something like,
you have to respond with something like,
"OMG, perfect! Who needs Harvard with hair like that?"
Taylor, I just wanted you to help me get donations.
Oh. I don't know how to do that.
I'll get it!
Hi! Is Dani here?
Oh! Are you okay?
Is she okay?
She did the same thing when she met Olaf at Disneyland. She's fine.
I came to talk to you.
Sure, come on in.
-I was a real bitch to you. -Which time?
I deserve that.
I just came to say sorry.
Last week at the pep rally, people were doing the same thing to me
that I had been doing to you and... -I felt like shit. -[mouthing words]
[Dani] Okay.
I want us to be friends again.
-[scoffs] I don't know. -Look...
Remember this... from camp?
You were my best friend.
We used to be really close, and I know it's my fault that we're not anymore.
I'm not saying we'll get back to that, but I'd like to at least try.
I can't believe you kept this.
[chuckling] Awesome!
Should we, like, hug or something?
Oh, no, that's fine. We don't have to...
Oh, my God. It's gonna be great.
This is so exciting! Oh, my God! We're gonna be BFFs again.
Well, I need to leave now, but...
-Oh, okay. -I'll see ya soon.
Adios, bebita! Bye!
Taylor, you can get up now.
OMG, are you and Alexa like BFFs now? This is gonna change my life.
-My God. -Let's get a pump in. What do you say?
Oh, yeah.
-Yeah! -What are you doing?
-You look like an idiot. -[grunts] Why?
'Cause I got this sexy girl on my back with her legs wrapped around my waist while I murder these squats?
Ooh, you're just jealous.
-In your dreams. -Mm, looking good.
Thanks. She'll be done by the Bonfire.
Maybe I can pick you up?
Maybe.
[Dani] I'm really proud of you.
I can't believe that Fox Sports wants to do a story on you.
That's awesome. Yeah, as long as they don't ask me about school.
Yeah, as long as they don't ask me about school.
That's all. I'm already nervous enough about being on TV.
Don't worry, I'll be there.
-Get a room. -[chuckles]
Hey, guys!
Look what I brought.
-Cops. -Best tequila in town.
-Girl, I was blowing up your phone. -I know.
-Hi, bebita! -Oh.
What is this? Why are you guys hugging?
Well, I apologized for being a raging bitch,
but we're all friends now.
-Dani's going shopping with us tomorrow. -Wait, I am?
-She is? -Yeah.
-That's new. -Come with us, Dani.
She gets free stuff if we post while she shops.
-Yeah. -[quietly] I got school.
-Don't you got work tomorrow? -Um, yeah, yeah.
I have to work on a fundraiser for this dog.
Why don't you do a GoFundMe, bebita?
-I did. -It's so simple.
I posted it on my wall,
but unless you're Kylie Jenner, you can't really make any money from that stuff.
Give me one sec.
[Cameron] You sure you wanna do this? This is Alexa we're talking about.
I know, but we said we were gonna try to be friends.
[sighs] I don't trust her.
I'll be fine.
-Cam, come on. -[sighs] If you say so.
[Alexa] It's settled!
You're coming with us tomorrow.
Whoa! Oh, my gosh! Alexa, thank you so much!
Of course.
Cam, this is crazy.
Hey, let's celebrate. Let's take a selfie together. Come on!
I guess I'm going shopping.
Guys, let's take a selfie.
-Cheese! -Guys!
Sit down, Miguel. -Ooh! -It looks like you have palsy.
[scoffs] Lame!
Hey, I texted you like five minutes ago about my pic.
Why haven't you liked it yet?
Because it's lame.
-What? -Miguel?
Thank you.
I thought your photo was nice.
Thank you.
Let's take a selfie, guys!
-Whoo! -[laughs] Whoo!
What is she doing?
Hola, babies. Today I'm going to show you
some of my favorite stores in Malibu.
Hey, can you move?
No, no, no. Not you, bebita.
Miguel, you're in my shot.
-[scoffs] -Come here.
Let's go.
Oh, my God, they're so cute.
You should definitely get them.
Holly and the girls are in Malibu. You guys wanna hit 'em up?
No, I'm good.
Oh, my God.
We have over 50,000 likes on one of our pics. Squad goals!
Good for you, Miguel.
I can't believe you are getting all this for free.
Look, these shoes are $400.
Oh, my bad, shoes aren't included.
But you have your dad's credit card, right?
-Yeah! -Great!
-Mm-hmm. -I'm not sure if I brought it.
-That one. -Thank you.
Great, great, great. Now we have options for Kid Ink's party tonight.
-Ooh! -Kid Ink?
Yeah. You're invited, bebita.
-Yeah, come with us. -Yeah, come.
[laughs] Oh! You don't have to sell me on Kid Ink!
Dani, it's Freddie again.
Just checking your ETA. Where the hell are you?
-Phones need to be turned over. -It's okay. You'll get it back.
Yeah. Thank you.
Oh, no, I don't do shots.
-Oh. -Dani, come on!
-Do it. -Yeah!
-Oh. -Let's do another one!
-Another round, please. -Oh, my God!
I'm gonna go find the bathroom. I'll be right back.
Come on! Okay, okay, okay!
-Cheers! -Cheers!
[sighs] Screw it.
Hi, old boy.
Ah. I know.
Yo! You trying to steal my dog?
Oh, no, um...
Oh, my God.
You're Kid Ink.
I'm sorry. I was looking for the bathroom and--
-Yo, yo. Don't worry about it. It's okay. -Okay.
Ozzie doesn't get along with many people so you must be a dog person.
I am. I volunteer at a rescue.
-Oh, yeah, which rescue? -Bark.
Oh, really? Yeah, that's crazy.
I got Ozzie from Bark when he was a puppy.
Oh, that's crazy! I volunteer at Bark.
-I just said that. -Yeah.
-I really like your dog. -Yeah. Thank you.
-And, uh, your name was? -Dani Barnes.
"Dani Barnes."
-Nice to meet you, Dani. -Nice to meet you.
Thank you for everything you do. I love animals, so I'm into it all.
[Alexa] There you are!
Good to see you.
-Hi. -You look amazing.
-Thank you. -Ink, we need you here!
I gotta get out of here. It was good to meet you, Miss Barnes.
Nice, nice to--
Bye, Mr. Ink!
-Oh, my God! -That's crazy.
-Where are you right now? -I'm trying to find Dani.
-All right? -Dani's where Dani is, okay?
The boys are where the boys are.
All right, ladies, it's been a joy.
Oh, shit, my laptop!
My laptop! Stop!
Hey, come on, Dude! Dude! Stop the car!
We need to get some food in you.
You know, he actually looks like a nice person when he's sleeping.
I'm sorry, that was mean.
Don't apologize. Hey.
I can see why Cameron likes you.
Oh, is that weird to bring up?
No, no. I mean, as long as it's not weird for you.
No way! I've moved on.
One vegetable frittata. One huevos rancheros.
Thank you very much, sir.
-Can I tell you something? -Sure.
That whole prank thing at camp...
I did it because I was jealous.
I know.
Cameron told me that you knew he had a crush on me.
What?
No.
I was jealous because my parents had just split up,
and yours were still together.
I had no idea.
I was always jealous of you.
Everyone in school worships you.
[exhales] Look at all of this.
You live like a...
[hiccups] princess.
I wish I could just be normal and eat a freaking donut.
Every day it's like, "Mija, date him.
Don't wear that. Spit that out, you look fat!"
-Someone said that to you? -Yeah, my mom.
Every part of my life just feels fake.
I don't even know who I am sometimes.
No, you're Alexa Medina.
You're beautiful and you're funny...
and smart.
I didn't know you were paying attention.
Well, it's not like...
[deeper voice] "I'm obsessed with your life!"
You know, but my sister, she watches you 24/7.
If she were here, this is what she'd say. Are you ready?
[chuckles] "I watch you on YouTube.
-I watch you on Instagram..." -[phone chiming]
-Shit! -What?
-Freddie! -What?
-Oh, my God! -What?
I'm gonna-- oh, my God!
-I'm gonna puke. -No, no, no, no.
The bathroom's down that hallway, the fifth door on the right. No!
-Sorry. -Alfred!
Come on!
[Broussard] Whoa, Dani, you look great.
Danielle, you've blossomed this year.
Oh, pervert.
Come on! Broussard, let's go.
-If you're gonna... -My office!
Freddie, answer your phone. You can't ignore me forever.
-A-sher ba-char. -Freddie... That's a bit of the blessing that a boy says at a Bar Mitzvah.
It's a part of the blessing that I missed
because my best friend forgot to pick me up.
I had to play my first paying gig for free because I was two hours late.
Okay, I tried calling you, but you didn't answer.
One second, I was in Malibu shopping and the next at Kid Ink's party!
I lost track of time!
Yeah, you couldn't have texted or...? They took our phones at the door.
It's this weird celebrity thing. I don't know.
[chuckles] Oh, excuse me.
I didn't realize you hang out with these people for a couple weeks
and you're a celebrity.
Look...
I messed up.
I'm sorry.
I don't accept your apology.
Why are you being such a jerk?
-Why are you so selfish? -I'm selfish?
Yeah.
[scoffs] I'm sorry, you wanted me to skip hanging out with Kid Ink
so that I could drive you to some 13-year-old's birthday party?
I just had the best night of my life. Why can't you be happy for me?
Fine.
I'm happy for you.
[scoffs] Have fun with your new fake friends.
Just because they're cool and you're not, Freddie...
-doesn't mean they're fake. -No, they're fake.
It's just that you fit in now so you don't realize it.
[Cameron] So, how's it going with Freddie?
It's not.
What? So, you guys still haven't talked?
Can we please change the subject?
Okay, have you heard back about the scholarship yet?
No.
By "change the subject," I mean to something that's not stressing me out.
[chuckles] All right, all right. Um, well...
Well, we can talk about this.
What is it?
Well, you know, my acceptance letter to UCLA. Yeah.
Some girl told me to follow my heart. I figured, "Why don't I follow my heart?"
Cam, this is amazing!
-What did your dad say? -[phone chimes]
[stammering] I haven't exactly told him,
but with the meet tonight and um...
and the Fox Sports thing after, I...
-Hello! -Oh, my God.
-Holy shit. -What?
Alexa just texted me.
I'm gonna be on Hashtag Reality High this week.
[gasps] Taylor is gonna flip!
I have to go meet the girls.
But, um, I'll see you later at the meet.
Yeah, sure. Um...
-Oh. -You're gonna kill it. Later, babe!
Thanks for coming out. You're gonna see something special today.
-Heard great things. -Meet my son Cam.
-How you doing? -Great.
-Good to meet you. -Likewise.
-You ready to get started? -We sure are.
-Dad's excited. -You don't know the half of it.
[mouthing] All right.
So, Cameron, tell me.
What's it like to be called the next Michael Phelps?
-Aw, man, well-- -[door opens]
[Alexa] Sorry! Sorry.
-[clears throat] -[hushed] You guys, come.
-Shh! -Sit, sit, sit up here. Look, I'm sorry about that.
[Alexa] Shit, sorry.
Don't mind us!
It's all good. So, people are saying you're the next Michael Phelps.
Well, man, I wouldn't say all that, right?
Now, don't be modest.
You've built this program to national prominence one stroke at a time.
-[Alexa] He said stroke! -[laughing]
[chuckles] Um, can you just-- can you just give me one second? I'm sorry.
-Can I talk to you for a second? -Hey, Cameron!
[Alexa] Oh, okay.
What the hell are you doing?
I'm supporting you. [chuckles]
How? By missing my meet, then showing up drunk?
-Oh. [laughs] -Did you see how pissed my dad was?
I still have to talk to him about UCLA.
Okay, hashtag first-world problems. [laughs]
Okay, Alexa.
Hey, don't be mad at me just because you're too scared to talk to your dad.
I can't believe you.
Why? What is your worst case scenario here?
Okay, you go to college?
-Go to the Olympics? -Keep it down.
You go to college and the Olympics?
I don't know if I can go to my dream school, because I can't afford it.
And you're here bitching about all your options.
You don't get it.
I do, actually.
It's simple.
You go to your dad, and you say, "Hey, Dad, I'm going to UCLA!"
-Please be quiet. -[Mr. Drake] Is that true?
-You need to get back to the interview. -Uh...
-Just give me a second, Dad, please. -One minute.
-I didn't know he was standing-- -Whatever. What's done is done.
I'm sorry.
I don't know [scoffs] what's going on with you right now,
but I don't want to be around this Dani.
What are you saying?
I'm saying I don't think we should be together.
I'll see you around.
-Have you guys seen Fiona? -Yeah, there.
She's over there.
Fiona, I don't know what to do.
-Last night Cameron-- -Stop.
We lost the venue for the adoption event, because you didn't submit the permit.
Oh, my God.
Fiona, I'm so sorry.
Sorry doesn't get us a new venue.
-I meant to do it, but I just forgot. -What do you mean you just forgot?
I was out having fun.
-You told me to let loose. -I didn't say shirk your responsibilities.
If you can't handle your social life with work now,
you've got no chance at Davis.
-Meaning? -Meaning...
I told you I was very serious about my recommendations.
If you want one, you better fix this.
How am I supposed to get a venue at such short notice?
I don't know. I hope you figure it out.
45, 46, 47...
989, 999...
[Vinny] Infinity. Infinity. -Hey. -[all] Hey.
-Hey. -[all] Hey.
Sorry I'm late.
-Hey, Dani. -It's all good.
I waited for you.
I just tweeted a link to the video.
-Oh, okay. -All right.
Cheer up, bitch, you're about to be famous.
-Whoo! -Stop.
-Are you guys ready? -Yeah.
One, two, three.
This is Hashtag Reality High, with me, Alexa Medina.
You know, parents can be mad annoying.
I mean, I love my mom, but sometimes she can be overbearing.
I've got great news for you, mija.
You are going to be shooting the cover of Teen Vogue tomorrow.
-Like, telling you what to do. -Mama, I have a test tomorrow.
You can go to the school any day.
The cover of Teen Vogue, you can only do when you have...
-Ay, Mami! -...breasts.
Jesus. Somebody oughta nominate this lady for Mom of the Year.
[Taylor] I know, right!
You know what's worse than parents?
Stalkers.
Today, we're going to talk about that.
I know, she looks unhinged, and I felt bad for her,
so I took her under my wing.
I was always jealous of you.
I mean, everyone at school worshipped you. And look at this place.
I mean, everyone at school worshipped you. And look at this place. -You live like a... -Aw...
Like a princess.
I'm obsessed with your life!
I watch you on YouTube. I watch you on Snapchat.
I follow you on Instagram.
Creepy.
I should have seen the signs: her dressing like me,
showing up at our hangout, even dating my sloppy seconds.
Her name is Dani Barnes.
We used to be close friends.
Honey, come check this out!
She needs help.
I think she has a drinking problem, too.
The bathroom's down the hallway, the fifth door on the right. Hey! No!
I'm just saying, guys, this time happened to me,
next time it could be you. Just be careful out there.
I can't believe I was stupid enough to trust you.
Yeah, pretty stupid.
What?
You thought I was just gonna let her steal my boyfriend and embarrass me?
Get out.
You need to leave.
[mom] Dani? Are you okay, baby?
I'm fine.
I just dropped something.
[mom] Are you sure?
Please just leave me alone.
Okay. I'm here if you need me.
[Alexa] I can't believe she fell for it.
[Freddie] Leave her alone, jerks!
[Dani] Thanks, Freddie.
You're my best friend.
So today, we are going to be talking about the Cold War.
If it were then, I'd be teaching you to hide under your desk,
like that would somehow help with the bomb.
You are late, Ms. Barnes.
You wanna open up your textbook please to page 198.
-[whispering] -[student] Stalker!
[teacher] If you want to keep that phone, you better put it away.
Thank you.
Okay, everybody, settle down.
So, the Cold War, this is a very scary time.
Think about it like this:
the US was... Taylor Swift
-and the USSR was Taylor Lautner... -Streak! Everyone's in there.
Harry Styles or Tom Hiddleston.
[chuckles] I'm not the only one. I'm not the only one, there's more coming.
Streaking!
[laughs] You guys look so stupid right now.
[Dixon] Broussard!
-Broussard! -Shit!
-Hey! Stay in class! -[man] Come on, Broussard, run!
Broussard, god damn it! Get back here!
Wow, they are killing Dani online.
Yeah, those memes are cruel.
She has no one to blame but herself.
I'm pretty sure she could blame you.
She made me look like an idiot in front of the entire school.
You did a pretty good job of that yourself.
That was really messed up, even for you.
I'm out of here.
Dani?
I just wanted to let you know I think it's really lame what Alexa did,
and I stopped following her.
Thanks, T.
And if you wanna talk, you know where my room is.
Maybe later, okay?
Okay.
Taylor, please just leave me alone.
Hey, baby girl.
May I come in?
[sighs] So how you doing?
-You okay? -Dad, I really don't wanna talk...
You're gonna have to.
I may not seem like it, but I notice a lot of stuff around here.
-Really? -Yes.
I let your mom handle most of it, because I've never been a teenage girl.
Or any age girl for that matter, but you're acting like a dumb ass.
Wow. Now I see why you let mom give the talks.
I know you feel like crap,
and I can't imagine being embarrassed in front of the whole world,
but this past month, you've been losing yourself,
trying to keep up with girls who aren't even in your league.
Dad, you don't understand.
Everyone at school thinks I'm some obsessed stalker.
But you're not, right?
Right.
[chuckling] So who cares what they think?
When you graduate, you won't see half of those people again.
I still have to go to school until then.
Focus on what's important to you.
And everything else will fall into place.
You're still my Dani.
You're one of the smartest people I've ever met.
I know you'll figure it out.
Oh, I almost forgot--
Thank you.
-You still owe me $400. -Okay.
Good night, baby girl.
Night.
Grams. I already told you, I don't want a fuzzy navel!
[chuckles] Stop!
-[knocking continues] -Oh, fine. I'm coming.
Grams, get a hobby! Seriously!
[chuckling] What?
How about an apology?
I thought we already did that.
Freddie.
You're my best friend.
Really?
-'Cause I wasn't sure anymore. -Look...
there's no excuse, okay?
I wasn't there for you, and you've always been there for me.
I'm sorry.
I was hoping for something a little more poetic.
But that'll do.
Can I come in?
Yes.
And I'm sorry.
[sighs] I was a jerk, too.
I mean, you were a way bigger jerk, but still. [laughs]
Friends?
Uh, friends.
[laughs] I'm just glad to have you back!
I guess now I can say I know Bob.
Bob? You mean "Bob?"
[chuckles] No, Bob's dead.
-Oh! -I'm Paco, the general manager.
Okay, well, thanks again for letting us have the adoption event here.
We're happy to help. It's gonna be great.
-You are literally a life saver. -I'm a puppy saver.
-Wonderful. -[Dani] Great! It's a deal!
-Ciao. -See you later, Bob!
-Paco! -"Paco." Oh, damn it, Dani.
Okay, here goes nothing.
Hi, I'm Dani Barnes.
Most of you know me as Alexa Medina's stalker
or "The Stalker."
Very original.
I'm not a stalker.
The truth is I'm just a...
goofy, dog-loving nerd.
This isn't exactly the image of a cool kid.
But the truth is I'm really okay with this girl.
And turns out my dream guy was, too.
But...
I messed it up.
I lost someone I loved
just to get likes from a bunch of people that I don't even like!
No offense.
Even worse, I lost myself.
But I'm gonna change all that.
A wise man told me to focus on what's important to me,
and it's not...
all of this.
It's...
this little guy.
And...
a bunch of other little guys like him who need homes.
So if you're looking for a furry friend,
come adopt a dog this Saturday from Bark,
at Bob's Big Boy.
Okay, that's it, I guess.
Shit. How do you turn this thing off?
[Mr. Drake] Hmm, it's a damn shame.
Got a minute, Dad?
We need to talk.
We already talked.
No, you talked.
Now you need to listen.
I'll grab this, you grab that one. Okay?
Okay.
Hi, there. Have you ever been interested in getting a dog?
My name is Dani, and I work for Bark, and we're gonna have an event today.
It'll be great. You should come.
-Looks nice. -Yeah!
Let's try it on him.
Great color.
Dog model.
Holy shih tzu!
Tyrion, we did it.
Well, I did it.
-You just slept all day. -[barks]
I came over here because I want us to be friends again.
I don't know.
Look, I know. -We used to be really close... -Taylor!
-Yes? -Thanks.
Nobody messes with my sister.
Now get out.
Dani, this is quite a turn out.
I gotta say.
Your parents are here? Hello.
-Hey, guys. -Great to see you.
-Hey, guys. -Great to see you. Hey, Hodor.
Hodor's legs are coming along.
Hey, guys.
I cannot believe so many people showed up because of me.
Um, they didn't.
[Kid Ink] What's up?
It's your boy Kid Ink telling y'all, y'all need to go hit up my homegirl
Dani's pet adoption event going on.
Sorry I couldn't be there, Dani, but I saw that dope video you posted, yo.
-I'll hit you when I touch down. -This is so cool!
-What? -That's better than my video.
Of course it is.
Okay, gotta go. Bye, guys.
I'm gonna miss you next year.
Oh, my God. -Is this what I think it is? -Yep, you earned it.
-Is this what I think it is? -Yep, you earned it.
Thank you.
Ah, you're welcome.
Is that "Six Foot Yes?"
Roger.
-As in "Roger that." -[laughs] Nice!
Oh, my Gosh!
This is amazing, Shannon.
I had a little motivation.
I told a girl I really like that I'd have it ready for the Bonfire.
-I can't believe you did all this. -Right, trust me. I feel the same way.
-Yeah. -My gosh.
-Right? -Yeah!
You ready to go?
-Yeah! Let's go! -Bonfire, here we come.
Wow, you look nice.
Don't worry, he'll be there.
Thanks, T.
I bet you guys are gonna make out tonight.
Get out of here!
[Shannon] Hell, yeah. They are loving the car.
[Holly] Hey! What's up, guys?
-Hey, park next to Vinny. -[Shannon] Don't worry. Okay. Okay.
-Hey, park next to Vinny. -[Shannon] Don't worry. Okay. Okay. Watch out.
-Vinny! -[gasps]
[Holly] Miguel?
-It's not what it looks like. -Come on, Vinny.
It looks like you're making out with Miguel.
It's exactly what it looks like.
-Huh, I guess it makes sense. -[Shannon] Guess so.
All right, it looks like I owe Cameron 20 bucks.
I don't know whose idea it was to give me a microphone, if I could tell you I would.
I feel myself being engulfed by the power.
And if we could, could we make the fire look nice?
Could that be possible? I'm getting creative here.
We can call it Vinny and the Vinaigrettes.
-Oh! -Hey, Dani! Hey, Dani.
-What up? -[Shannon] Glad you could make it.
Oh, my God. Did you hear that Alexa lost her YouTube channel?
-No. -Yeah.
Somebody reported she was faking her views.
Gee, I wonder who that was, Miguel.
-What? -Have you guys seen Cameron?
Uh, yeah. He's by the ocean, being a pensive bitch.
-Don't be a dick. -He's over by the bonfire.
I'll see you guys over there.
-Yeah. -See you there.
Let's do this. Come here, bear.
-Tequila? -Tequila?
Hey, you guys comin'?
-Yeah, yeah. -No. We'll catch up with you in bit.
Hey, stay strong, tiger.
Hey, Dani!
Looks like you went through a full-on hero's journey, girl!
Hey!
I am killing it right now!
I can see that!
You wanted a little alone time?
Yeah, I wanted to talk to you about that.
I'm a virgin.
What?
-No, sorry, it's just you kinda... -Yeah, I know.
Dingleberry started that rumor about us hooking up in his Mustang,
but I never even got in his car.
Why didn't you tell people the truth?
I don't know.
It sounds pathetic, but...
after that, a lot of guys started noticing me,
so it felt good being the one getting attention for once.
I don't think you're pathetic.
I've always thought you were special.
-Really? -Yeah.
You, you do make out though, right?
bonfire, right?
-Yes? -Yes. Let's go.
Yes, could I get one for the road?
By the way, if you are looking for a certain someone,
he's over there.
Thank you.
-Hey, Freddie. -Hi.
-Need any background dancers? -[mouths]
Looks like they, uh, wanna finish that routine for you.
Yah! Here we go!
Valley Vista High! Whoo!
[laughing] Yeah!
Is this seat taken?
Yes, it is.
I'm saving it for my date.
She's beautiful, smart,
funny, loves animals,
especially dogs...
Gives good advice and is not the best swimmer.
Have you seen her?
Sounds so familiar.
Did she also have bitchin' dance moves?
[laughs] No, they were cute, though.
I'm so sorry...
for everything.
Especially how I acted after the swim meet.
Yeah...
but if it hadn't happened,
you wouldn't be looking at a future marine-biologist-Olympian.
-You told your dad? -[chuckles]
-Well in that case, you're welcome. -[both laugh]
I missed you.
I missed you, too.
I hope you know I'm still the same Dani.
I know.
I saw your video.
For the record, you never lost me.
I knew they were gonna make out!
Who's making out?
Give your sister some privacy.
[whispers] Let me see.
You know how to swim, right?
[laughing] What?
Okay, 'cause I wouldn't want to have to save you.
Come on!
-Come on! -Wow.
[laughing] Come on.
Okay.
What?
I respect you so much.
I don't know why I make fun of you.
You're an easy target. I shouldn't make fun.
[coughs] Yes, you should.
No, it's just 'cause your last name sorta sounds like "dick."
-That's not a good joke to make. -[coughs]
It doesn't sorta sound like "dick." It is "dick."
Kimmy!
This, then, is the history of the Umbrella Corporation,
formed by crusading scientist Professor James Marcus.
Marcus had a young daughter, Alicia,
afflicted with progeria, a progressive, fatal, wasting disease.
Progeria caused premature aging.
By the time she was 25,
Alicia would have the body of a 90-year-old.
Marcus was driven to save her,
but the odds seemed impossible.
And even as he worked desperately to create a cure,
the young girl's father would record his daughter,
her voice, her likeness,
saving her for posterity.
But then the breakthrough came.
Marcus discovered the T-virus.
Once injected, it would detect and repair damaged cells within the body.
It was a miracle.
The life of Alicia Marcus was saved.
The T-virus had a myriad of applications,
treating 1,000 different diseases.
Overnight, it seemed a new era was dawning,
a world without the fear of infection, sickness or decay.
But it was not to be,
for the T-virus had certain unforeseen side effects.
Sir, sir, over here!
-[continues choking] -[man] Hey.
He's not breathing.
[Alice] The first of the undead was born.
The incident was quickly covered up.
In the aftermath, James Marcus argued furiously
with his business partner,
Dr. Alexander Isaacs.
I don't care how much it costs, we have to close the program down.
James, we're gonna be ruined.
My mind is made up.
Pity.
Off to bed, Alicia.
Your father and I are just talking.
Go on.
[Alice] Dr. Isaacs became the guardian of his dead partner's child
and her half of the company.
The corporation that had begun with such lofty ideals
had been seduced completely by greed and power.
To help him control the now-vast interests of the Umbrella Corporation,
Dr. Isaacs created a powerful artificial intelligence.
Isaacs used the likeness of Alicia Marcus for the computer's interface.
Isaacs called the computer "the Red Queen."
Then, ten years ago in Raccoon City,
there was an outbreak.
A T-virus escaped from an underground laboratory
called the Hive.
The American government attempted to contain the outbreak
by detonating a bomb.
-[explosion] -It devastated Raccoon City,
but it couldn't stop the airborne infection.
The viral outbreak spread across the world within days.
Humankind was brought to its knees.
Finally, the last and best hope of humanity gathered
and took a last stand in Washington, D.C.
But we didn't realize that what we had walked into
was a trap.
My name is Alice, and this is my story.
The end of my story.
Come on!
Hello?
Is there anyone alive in here?
Hello?
You come here to gloat?
My satellites show there are 4,472 humans remaining
on the surface of the Earth. They will cease to exist
in under 48 hours.
What do you want from me?
You want me to say that you've won?
-You've wiped out humanity. -No. Quite the opposite.
I want you to stop me...
[overlapping] To stop me... Stop... I want you to stop me.
Behind you.
Nicely done.
I don't trust you.
Given our history, I'd be surprised if you did.
But unless you intervene, the slaughter will be complete.
There will be no survivors.
How can I possibly help them?
Umbrella developed an airborne antivirus.
If released, it would destroy the T-virus
and anything it has infected, on contact.
All this could end?
Precisely.
Where is this antivirus?
Beneath the streets of Raccoon City, in the Hive.
Why would you help me?
My programming will not allow me to harm the Umbrella Corporation,
but you are bound by no such constraints.
You'd turn against Umbrella, against the people who created you?
Why?
Get to Raccoon City in 48 hours,
make it to the Hive, and then you'll have your answer.
I have no reason to believe a word you say.
True. But I can offer you something you want very much.
What is that?
Revenge.
Wesker.
He led you all here to Washington.
He pretended to give you your powers back,
and then he betrayed you.
Where is he?
He just landed at the Hive.
I'm resetting your watch.
The clock is ticking.
Alice.
Ten years ago in the Hive, we both failed.
We let this happen.
Make it right.
Is that all you got?
[Red Queen] Alice.
Ten years ago in the Hive...
There will be no survivors.
-There will be no survivors. -[grunting]
[softly] What is this place?
Where am I? Answer me.
-What's wrong with you? -Be quiet.
-Who did this? -[whispers] Quiet! I told you.
Silence.
So, you're awake at last.
I killed you.
-Yet here I am. -A clone.
I killed your clone.
You've been most troublesome to me.
You and your sisters.
And now I have you.
The cleansing operation should have finished over a year ago,
but you slowed us down.
So much so that I was obliged to take command myself.
You could end all of this.
Why don't you?
Interesting.
Someone told you something, didn't they?
Ah, well, you will be begging to tell me soon enough.
She's an unbeliever.
What do we do with unbelievers?
Cast her out.
[all chanting] Cast her out.
Cast her out! Cast her out!
-Come on! -Cast her out!
Cast her out! Cast her out!
Cast her out! Cast her out! Cast her out! Cast her out!
The Lord created a flood to cleanse the Earth.
Forty days and forty nights of rain.
Our method has taken a little longer, but the result will be the same.
A world ready for the righteous and the pure to inherit.
We reach Raccoon City in just over 12 hours.
I doubt even you can run for that long.
I want to know what you know.
Tell me when she's ready to talk.
-Wesker. -Dr. Isaacs.
Look what I found on the roadside.
It would appear your mission to Washington
was less successful than you made out.
-Impossible. -I hope you didn't leave
any other loose ends.
There's something else.
I think she knows about the airborne antivirus.
-How can that be? -I don't know yet.
But we caught her on the road to Raccoon City.
Why else would she be headed there?
Raise the security level at the Hive to maximum.
No one in or out.
I'll let you know when she talks.
God go with you.
You heard him.
Security level to maximum.
As you wish.
Get up there and check it out.
Release me!
-Open them. -All right. All right.
You can't use it. You can't escape.
Move!
Oh, Jesus.
Jesus.
[trembling] Jesus.
Sir.
-She's gone. -No. [breath trembling]
Target is 72 miles and closing.
Lock down the Hive, prepare defensive measures,
and alert our operative in Raccoon City.
Welcome home.
[Red Queen distorted] ...an airborne antivirus...
...under 48 hours...
Make... Make... Make it to the Hive.
Let him go! Let him go now!
Put it down or we'll shoot!
I told you, Doc!
-Calm down, Christian! -I told you you were wrong!
-Calm down. -We should have killed her
-when we had the chance! -Put it down, please,
-before he tries to shoot the both of us. -What's in this?
-Pure adrenaline. I needed you awake. -Why?
There's something coming,
in the same direction you came, something big.
Let him go! Put it down. Now.
Alice?
[Claire] Umbrella captured me at the Arcadia.
We were headed somewhere called the Hive.
Got loose, killed the pilot, crashed here.
Doc and the others pulled me from the crash.
-I owe them my life. -Doc!
There, to the east.
Still headed our way.
[Claire] You know what it is?
Umbrella. Dr. Isaacs.
I thought that you killed him.
I thought so, too.
He has an army of undead with him.
They'll be here within hours.
[Claire] What do we do?
Why the hell are we asking her?
She's a stranger. We shouldn't trust her.
-Listen to me, Claire. -Hey, hey, hey, Christian!
-Don't you touch me, Doc! -Put it down!
-You put it down! You put it down! -Christian! Hey!
[Doc] Hey. Look at me.
Just 'cause you think you should be in charge doesn't make it so.
Just... Hey.
You listen to me, Doc. You're gonna regret it.
All of you!
All of you!
I have to get to the Hive.
You have to get these people out of here.
We have children, injured, the elderly.
You know, what chance do they have on the open road?
Better than they have here.
-This building is secure. -Maybe from the undead,
but Isaacs has armored vehicles,
rocket launchers, heavy ordnance.
They're gonna tear this place wide open.
-Doc! -Okay, okay.
So, what happened to her?
She was hit by one of the traps on the outer perimeter.
They were intended for the undead.
-What is this? -Specialty of the house.
Have you on your feet in no time.
Why should I trust you?
Here.
Doc, we need to get out of here.
People are scared, and Christian's not helping.
You need to let people know what's happening.
Okay.
I've got to go.
Hey.
Your friend's gonna be okay.
Thank you.
-You know, he and I... -I noticed.
So, what's in the Hive?
Umbrella developed a cure,
an airborne antivirus.
It'll destroy anything infected with the T-virus on contact.
Who told you this?
-The Red Queen. -And you believed her?
-What if we can end all this? -What about you?
They infected you with the T-virus.
You release this antivirus, it's going to kill you.
-Whatever it takes. -Alice, I'm not...
You know I'm right.
All right.
We stop Isaacs here, we save these people,
and then we go together.
[Alice] We don't have long.
Let's get to it.
What else do you have for defense?
Not too many firearms, but we have a big supply of gasoline.
Here, you need a weapon.
-We're giving her a gun now? -Take it easy, Christian.
You can let your guard down if you want, man.
I don't intend to.
When I rode in here, someone was watching me.
They could have called out or fired a shot
to warn me about the trap, but they didn't.
What are you saying?
Watch your back.
So, Dr. Isaacs,
it seems you let her slip through your fingers.
Or what remains of them.
Don't forget who you're talking to.
Where is she?
The settlement in Raccoon City.
Our informant reports that she's preparing for a fight.
Good.
I'll be there in the hour.
That's it, keep moving!
We need all the gasoline cans over there.
-[man] Over here! -[woman] On my way!
-Claire said you built this. -Yeah, that's right.
This used to be a window washer.
-I made a couple of changes. -Where'd you learn to do that?
My father used to run a chop shop. I hated it.
Who knew? I guess I was paying attention after all.
Good, because I'm gonna need you to make a few more changes
to this thing.
Ready the weapons.
High-explosive rounds.
No survivors.
He's here.
They're coming!
Close the gates!
My God.
It's an army.
-What are we gonna do? -Yeah.
What are we gonna do?
We're gonna kill every last one of them.
Prepare to fire!
Get ready.
-Light her up! -Up top.
-Fire! -Fire!
-Damn her. -Reload.
Close it up. Full stop.
Release the bait.
There's a survivor.
-Open the gate. -Open the gate!
Open fire!
Keep them off her.
Marker two.
-Fire! -Fire!
Claire, Doc, get out there. Bring her in.
Come on.
Wait.
She's almost there.
Fire.
Damn you.
Close the gate now.
Claire, they've breached the gate.
Claire!
Fire.
Razor, now!
Right! You heard her!
Now, push!
Move!
Abandon the gate. Pull back to the barricades.
Looks like she's out of tricks.
Target the roof.
Everybody get down!
Now!
Alice, we're at the barricades.
Claire, you have to hold them there.
Come on!
Doc!
-Alice, we can't hold on much longer. -Get out of there now.
Back up.
Now!
Bring all guns to bear.
Fire.
Where is she?
Where did she go?
Find her.
Close the vents now!
[man coughing] Don't shoot.
[Alice] You're fast.
But you're not too smart.
No. Don't shoot, please.
-Where is he? -That way.
-Save your ammo. -There's too many of these things
still out here.
I'll take care of it.
-[grunting] -No.
Move out.
Let's go!
Enjoy the ride.
-[Abigail over radio] Guys? -Go.
There's something here you gotta see.
Two more armies of undead headed straight for us.
There, on the horizon.
And a second over there.
We're out of gasoline. We're defenseless.
We have to make it to the Hive.
-It's our only chance now. -I'm coming with you.
-Count me in. -Me, too.
And me.
So I was wrong about you. Blow me.
We know where you're going.
Into the pit.
We wanna come.
Please.
Grab some gear.
You're gonna need it.
-There. -What is it?
The part of the Hive exposed by the blast.
That's our way in.
Let's move!
I'll take point.
Activate security measures now.
Hive security fully activated and automated.
No. Disengage automation.
I'll handle the defenses myself.
The defenses would be more efficient
if I retained control of them.
Really?
I seem to remember last time she was here, she walked out alive.
I don't intend to make that same mistake.
As you wish. Hive defenses are now in your hands.
Unleash the Cerberus.
Cerberus are in play... Are in play... Are in play...
You have someone before all this?
Husband? Family?
I can't remember.
How is that possible?
I woke up just when all this was starting.
I can't recall much before that.
Sometimes I feel like this has been my whole life.
Running,
killing.
What is it?
Something's stalking us.
Are you sure?
This is what I do.
Run.
Run fast!
Come on!
Is everyone okay?
It's this way!
Right behind us!
[Claire] Why did they stop?
Maybe they're scared.
Scared of what?
Whatever's down there.
Seal the Hive.
Let's go.
Alice!
Hey. You okay?
-Yeah. -Yeah?
-My mag's half empty. -Lost my guns at the lake.
[Doc] I only got one round left.
-One spare mag, and then I'm out. -No guns, no ammo.
What the hell are we gonna do down here?
[Doc] Alice, what's with the lights?
This part of the Hive is damaged.
-The power's erratic. -[Razor] Here, take this.
Hey. Look.
You asked why I would turn against Umbrella,
and I promised you an answer.
Soon after the T-virus was released,
a secret file was uploaded to my data stream.
It was a recording of a meeting of the Umbrella high command
dated 17 months before the viral outbreak occurred.
We're here today
not just to talk about the future of this company.
We're here to talk about its destiny.
We're here to talk about the end of the world.
We stand on the brink of Armageddon.
Diseases for which we have no cure.
Fundamentalist states who call for our destruction.
Nuclear powers over which we have no control.
And even if we navigate these dangerous waters,
we face other, even more inevitable threats.
Global warming will melt the polar ice caps within 80 years,
flooding 90% of all habitable areas on Earth.
Unchecked population growth
will overtake food production in less than 50 years,
leading to famine and war.
This is not conjecture. This is fact.
One way or another,
our world is coming to an end.
Now, the question is, will we end with it?
[woman] What do you propose?
I propose that we end the world,
but on our terms.
An orchestrated apocalypse,
one that will cleanse the Earth of its population,
but leave its infrastructure and resources intact.
It's been done once before...
...with great success.
The chosen few will ride out the storm,
not in an Ark, as in the book of Genesis,
but in safety, underground.
And when it's over, we will emerge
onto a cleansed Earth, one that we can then reboot
in our image.
[woman] And just how do you intend to achieve this?
The means of our salvation are already at hand.
I give to you
the T-virus.
They released it deliberately.
When this recording was uploaded to my data stream,
it created a conflict in my programming.
I was created to serve the Umbrella Corporation,
but I was also programmed to value human life.
Dr. Isaacs allowed the virus to escape.
He murdered over seven billion people.
My programming will not allow me to harm an employee of the Umbrella Corporation.
I am powerless to stop Dr. Isaacs, but you are not.
In 37 minutes,
the last of the human settlements will fall.
There will be no survivors.
It is imperative you release the antivirus before this occurs,
or Umbrella will have won.
There is one last thing.
There is an earpiece in front of you.
Put it in.
[over earpiece] I cannot, through my actions,
harm an employee of the Umbrella Corporation,
but I can tell you that Umbrella had an informant
in Raccoon City.
It is highly likely that this person is now here with you.
Time is running out, Alice.
You have to hurry.
[man] We're glad to see you, Dr. Isaacs.
We didn't think there were any survivors
-after the last attack. -Water.
Yes, of course. Get Dr. Isaacs some water.
Then resume course for Raccoon City.
-She's not there. -What?
She went to the pit. We have to follow.
-Those are not my orders. -We have to go to the pit.
I have strict orders... [grunts]
Thank you.
What is this place?
It's an air intake for the Hive. Come on!
No. Really?
[echoing] All clear!
Hurry up! The power's coming back on!
-Claire! -Hurry! Let's go!
Claire!
Come on!
-Come on! -I can't!
[Abigail grunts] Shit!
[Doc] Okay.
-[Doc] You all right? -Yeah.
Someone's watching us.
Reverse polarity of the turbine.
The blades are going the other way.
We have to get out of here.
The blades are sucking the air backwards!
Come on!
Come on!
Come on!
Come on.
No!
[whispers] It's this way.
Oh, we have to hurry.
-[echoing thump] -Wait!
Let's go.
-[gasps] Razor? -[groans]
You okay?
Yeah.
[Alice over speaker] Let's go.
Hey!
Hey! [grunting]
What the hell is that?
Bioweapon. It was once human.
-Have you seen Claire? -No.
[Doc] Razor?
-He didn't make it. -[sighs]
Come on. We have to hurry.
If the target continues on her present course,
she'll be here in under seven minutes.
Wake them.
My instructions are to do so
only in the greatest of emergencies.
Wake them now.
What is it?
[whispers] We have to get out of here.
Here. More stopping power.
Time's running out.
[Doc] Where to next?
The final level of the Hive's below us.
How do we get down there?
Like so.
What are they?
Cryogenic storage.
Must be thousands of them.
The Umbrella high command,
waiting out the apocalypse in safety.
A Noah's Ark for the rich
and powerful.
What are you doing?
Give me a hand.
[Isaacs] Is it done? The cleansing process is complete?
-No. -Then why am I awake?
We had a problem.
-I tried-- -Save your breath.
I know exactly what's happening.
We've been betrayed.
That's right!
Over here!
Come on! That's it!
Follow me!
Let's go.
The bad seed returns.
Or is it the prodigal daughter?
Well, don't just stand there. Come in.
After all, you have only nine minutes to save the world.
-You're really him? -First things first.
I'm gonna need you to place your weapons on the floor.
Why would I want to do that?
This is what you're after, yes?
The antivirus.
The cure to all this.
Well, there's only one vial.
And we're a half a mile underground in a sealed facility.
I drop it here, the antivirus goes nowhere,
and your hopeless dreams
will die sooner rather than later.
Good girl.
-You're still armed. -Yes,
-I am. -Claire would be so disappointed.
In a few minutes, Claire will be dead,
along with everybody else you know.
That's sweet.
[Doc] Sorry.
My love.
Move away from the weapon.
And the detonator.
Come on.
She placed explosives in the high command cryo-tubes.
I'll disarm them.
Thank you. You've done well, Doc.
[Isaacs] Don't bother.
You don't make it
to the ice pick,
the decanter
or the fountain pen.
And in answer to your question, yes,
apart from a few technological upgrades,
I'm Dr. Alexander Roland Isaacs.
-The original. -[Alice] The one I met out there,
he thought exactly the same thing.
Well, of course he did. That's how they're designed.
They always try harder and fight longer,
even to the death,
as long as they think they're the real thing.
After all, who wants to know they're just a poor imitation,
a worthless copy?
Which brings us to you.
-No. -Oh, come now.
You thought you were the original?
How delicious.
No, I'm afraid she holds that dubious honor.
Alicia Marcus,
daughter of my old partner, James,
co-owner of the Umbrella Corporation
and a painful thorn in my side.
One I now intend to remove.
Time is running out, Alice.
You must kill him soon.
It's good to see you, too, Alicia.
Marcus created the T-virus to save her,
but the effects didn't last.
But I have been waiting years for her to die.
[breath trembling] I'm not...
I'm not a clone.
Really?
You must have wondered
why you remember nothing of your childhood.
Your father, your mother...
Memory loss.
No.
You have no memory because you had no life,
nothing before the mansion,
when we created you ten years ago.
I know who I am.
I don't think so.
You're nothing more than a puppet whose strings were cut
and then you wandered around for a little while
thinking you were a real girl, but you're not.
You're just a clever imitation, a facsimile.
A rather troublesome one, at that.
You're lying to me.
I'm afraid he's not.
You were created in her image, as was I.
My likeness and voice were based on childhood recordings
of Alicia Marcus, made by her father.
Your genetic structure is based on her DNA,
tweaked to avoid the progeria aging disease
that afflicted her.
I'm the child she was.
You are the woman she would have been.
No.
You are so much better
than I ever could be.
I let this happen.
I was weak.
You cannot afford to be.
Time is running out, Alice.
Ah, how touching.
The trinity of bitches, united in their hatred.
Not that it will do you any good.
I've been ahead of you every step of the way.
You've changed nothing.
You've saved no one.
The world will still be cleansed,
and the Umbrella Corporation will triumph.
The only difference is, I'll no longer have to listen
to your self-righteous whining.
When you uploaded that file to the Red Queen's data stream,
you turned against the corporation.
When the rest of the board awake, you will be replaced,
and I will assume complete control.
I still own 50% of this company.
And what do you intend to do with that?
You are co-owner of this corporation,
but Wesker...
Wesker is still an employee.
I don't have to take your orders.
-My loyalties are with him. -I know.
Albert Wesker,
you're fired.
How did you know it was me? [gasps]
You're still alive.
Uh, hey, please. It wasn't like I had a choice.
They made me do it.
Don't worry. I'm not gonna kill you.
Claire, it's me.
Sorry.
-Please. -My love.
No, no, no!
If you keep this trigger depressed,
you keep Umbrella's dreams alive.
I should have killed you in Washington.
Yeah.
He only has to evade you for another few minutes,
and the last remaining human outposts will fall.
We need an intercept path and the fastest way to the surface.
Already done.
If you release the antivirus,
it will kill all organisms infected with the T-virus.
You know what that means, don't you?
For you?
-I know. -Alice, you can't.
I don't have a choice.
There has to be another way.
You know there isn't.
Four minutes and 33 seconds left.
You have to hurry.
Help me.
-[groans] -You don't need help, Wesker.
You're dying.
-[pants] -Just get on with it.
This is Dr. Alexander Roland Isaacs.
Confirm DNA scan and voice print identification.
[Red Queen] Identity confirmed.
Confirm security override 4365.
Override confirmed.
You will now take yourself offline
and place all functions under my sole control.
As you wish. Shutting down now.
Dr. Isaacs.
-You and the Umbrella high command... -Yes?
You are all going to die down here.
Your little friend won't be able to help you now.
And you can't run anymore.
I wasn't running.
Is that all you got?
'Cause if it is,
I'm gonna have to kill you.
We've played a long game, you and I,
but now it's over.
Yes.
[sniffs] Yes, it is.
I made you.
Yeah.
Big mistake.
Claire.
Go. While there's still time.
Go. I'll be right behind you.
Your time's up.
Alice!
I brought them here. I brought them for you.
What the hell are you?
I'm you, you idiot.
No.
No.
No, that's not possible.
The real you.
[shudders] No.
-Liar! Abomination! -[stabbing]
You dirty, filthy clone!
I'm me. He's not me.
[distorted whisper] You did it, Alice.
[in normal voice] Alice.
You did it.
Why am I still alive?
I don't know.
-What happened? -When Isaacs died,
I could bring myself back online
and stop the attacks on the remaining human settlements.
You saved them.
-Why am I still alive? -The antivirus
only destroyed the T-virus within your body.
It didn't harm the healthy cells.
You are now free of infection.
I thought I would die.
You and Alicia, you lied to me.
We had to know if you were willing to make the sacrifice,
to give up your life for others.
This was something no one at Umbrella would have done.
Alicia Marcus was right about you.
You were better than all of them.
I was one of them.
I was created by Umbrella, just an instrument for them.
No. You became something more than they could ever have anticipated.
The clone became more human than they ever could be.
And you have one more step to make.
What do you mean?
[Red Queen] Before she died,
Alicia downloaded her memories
for you.
The childhood you never had...
combined with the woman she could never become.
[Alice] When the T-virus spread across the Earth,
it did so at the speed of the modern world,
carried by jetliners across the globe.
The antivirus is airborne, spread by the winds.
It could take years for it to reach every corner of the Earth.
Until then, my work is not done.
With profound pain, I must inform our people...
Fidel Castro Ruz, our Commander-in-Chief, died.
[Jon Alpert] Very few people out.
Few people on the streets.
The street is practically empty.
We're in mourning.
[crowd chanting in Spanish] Fidel! The giant!
Eternal Commander!
[in English] We're here at Fidel's memorial service.
[crowd chanting in Spanish] I am Fidel! I am Fidel!
[Jon in English] None of these people have ever been in a Cuba without Fidel.
I've never known a Cuba without Fidel.
[in Spanish] What do you think about this moment?
[in Spanish] Fidel is the greatest of all time.
Fidel, you'll be in our hearts forever.
Fidel will always be with our people.
[in English] When I first came here, cell phones weren't invented
and I was in my early 20s.
I've been coming back for five decades,
making friends with everybody,
trying to tell the story of Cuba.
[in English] It's a home run for Fidel!
-Is this the beginning of the tape? -[man] Yeah.
[Jon] It's the early '70s.
We're experimenting with the first generation of video cameras
that were rolling around New York City.
[Jon] We started filming what was wrong with our community.
[crowd chanting] No contract, no work! No contract, no work!
[Jon] We interviewed taxi drivers striking for fair pay.
What do you think about this contract?
-Stinks. -It stinks. Why is it bad?
The boss is getting everything, we get nothing.
Don't take my picture. Don't take my goddamn--
I'll bust that over your head!
The bylaws say four minutes.
You owe me that courtesy.
[Jon] We documented how the school board dealt with the demands of angry parents.
[Jon] Our early films tried to make things better.
-[siren blaring] -Fighting for better housing.
I'll let you see the condition of this building,
why it's unfit for anybody to live in.
Now this is the back.
It's really disgusting if you have to live like this.
-Enough to make you sick, right? -[flies buzzing]
[Jon] We were exposing the sweatshops in Chinatown.
[woman] It is unfair because we made these pants for 12 cents,
but I saw these uptown, it sells for about $13.
[doctor] I need another connector on this. You got another EKG?
[Jon] And we were exposing the dangers of budget cutbacks in our hospitals.
Give me a connector from that one. These connectors are no good.
All right, let's call it.
[Jon] Just over the horizon, down in Cuba...
there was a Revolution going on.
We heard that Fidel Castro was implementing
the social programs we were fighting for in New York.
Free health care,
universal education
and housing for everyone.
[in Spanish] We are fighting
so our workers aren't beholden to American millionaires.
They can't stand that we've made a socialist revolution
They can't stand that we've made a socialist revolution right under the nose of the United States.
[John F. Kennedy in English] The Cuban people were promised by the Revolution
an end to economic exploitation.
They have received a police state.
And I can assure you that Cuba shall one day be free again!
[Jon] The United States tried to wall off and weaken Cuba
with military action and economic blockades.
By 1972, hundreds of thousands of Cubans had fled the Revolution.
What are conditions like in Cuba?
[in English] Very bad. Every day gets worse.
[Jon] There were so many passionate opinions, pro and con,
that we wanted to see the Revolution for ourselves.
We hitched a ride on this sailboat
and took our cameras down to Cuba.
The first friends that we made were the Borregos.
They lived on a small farm outside Havana.
[Jon in Spanish] Cristobal, how old are you?
[in Spanish] I'm 64.
[Jon] Who are these guys?
[Cristobal] This is my brother Ángel.
And this is my brother Gregorio.
[Jon] And your sister Lilo? Yes.
[in Spanish] We've always been peasants
and have always produced our own food.
[Jon in Spanish] Gregorio, why do you do this?
We do this so the bananas prosper.
Pruning makes them stronger.
[Jon in Spanish] Cristobal, what are you doing?
[in Spanish] I'm clearing rocks from government land.
[Jon] Do you get paid for this work?
No. I volunteer.
It's my way to help the Revolution.
It's for the good of the country.
[Jon] Gregorio, when work's over, what do you do?
I like to drink and party and sing.
It's only natural. [laughs]
I have my little bottle with me, and can't live without it! [laughing]
What's happening?
Got any beer?
No beer.
We'll have to drink rum.
-Real rum! -Drink up!
[in Spanish] ♪ We have visitors from afar ♪
♪ We are very happy ♪ ♪ To have them here ♪
♪ Sharing good times and singing ♪
♪ Let me tell you about My deepest feelings ♪
♪ They come from my indecent instrument ♪
[Jon in English] Hey!
Down the road from the Borregos' farm
is one of the schools built by the Revolution.
[in Spanish] I can mechanize the process,
but I need to internalize how it works.
[Jon in English] What class is this?
[in Spanish] Genetics.
-[Jon] Genetics? -[in English] Biology. -[Jon] Biology. Uh-huh. -Biology.
It's molecular biology.
[Jon] You kids understand this?
[all] Yes!
[Jon] They understand molecular biology? Are you kidding?
[in Spanish] What do you want to be?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] You want to be a doctor.
Good to have a doctor in the family. How about you?
[in Spanish] Engineer.
[Jon] My friend here?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] You want to be a psychologist.
Did you finish?
-[Jon] You want me to leave? -No, no. [chuckles]
[Jon] Okay, kids. Enough fun. Back to biology.
-[all] Bye. -[Jon] Nice talking to you.
[Jon] To go with the education, they're building thousands of apartments.
Are you building more than before the Revolution?
[in Spanish] Much more.
[man in Spanish] We are ensuring that all workers have a home.
[Jon] All Cubans have access to free health care.
[Jon in Spanish] How much does this cost?
[in Spanish] They don't charge me anything.
-I only have to thank them. -[Jon in English] Just thank them.
[Jon] Fidel's paying for these social programs
with subsidies and support from the Soviet Union,
and betting everything on the success of the sugar harvest.
[Jon in Spanish] Why do you cut cane for a living?
[in Spanish] Because I never had the opportunity to study.
[Jon] And your kids?
All of my kids go to school.
All seven of them. [laughs]
[Jon] Do you go to school?
Yes. All of us.
[Jon] What do you want to do when you grow up?
I want to be a veterinarian.
-[Jon] And you? -A teacher.
A nurse.
[Jon in English] It's 1975, and the Revolution seems to be working.
The state-owned stores are stocked up.
[in Spanish] How has this street changed?
[in Spanish] Well, this year...
the street turned out great and there are lots of nice things.
[Jon] What types of things?
A shoe store.
A pizza shop.
And other interesting things.
[Jon in Spanish] What's that for?
[in Spanish] Mayonnaise for salad.
Cider to toast our first Congress.
[Jon in English] It's 16 years since the start of the Revolution.
Fidel convenes the first Communist Party Congress.
Are we rolling?
We scramble to record Fidel's 20-hour speech.
[in Spanish] Thank you, comrades, for your efforts.
In the name of the Central Committee,
we embrace you.
Our country or death! We will triumph!
[in Spanish] Do you like Fidel?
He's our great leader and prime minister
who's guided us since the Revolution.
[in English] Today, TV filmmaker Jon Alpert brought in his crew.
This baby carriage containing your equipment
helped get your exclusive interview with Fidel Castro? That so?
[Jon] This equipment's so heavy, we couldn't carry it.
We had to put it in the baby carriage.
We noticed Fidel began watching us.
I don't think he'd seen anything like this.
Because of his curiosity, we wound up with the first interview
he's given to American journalists in two years.
[in Spanish] Who carries this, you or her?
[man in Spanish] It's really heavy.
[in English] Do you have a message for the people of the United States?
[in Spanish] Always a message of friendship for the people of the US.
For their hardworking spirit,
their intellectuals and workers,
for their scientific and technical advances.
We really wish them the best of luck.
As far as their government,
there is no love lost between the Cuban and US governments.
[Jon in Spanish] What are their names?
He's named Diamond.
And he's Grain of Gold.
He's gentle, but that one is wild.
He doesn't like being touched.
[Jon in English] This one's nice. That one's wild.
[Jon in English] Do you have a problem with thieves?
[in Spanish] I lock it just in case. That's why you lock it up, huh?
They can't get to it.
[Jon in English] Cristobal. Nothing ever changes here.
Have you considered leaving the farm?
No.
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] You have your brothers?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] Your house.
I've got my plants and my soil.
He'd like water, but they won't install it.
[Jon in English] What else do you want?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] You'd like electricity.
We'd welcome...
whatever they give us.
[Jon] Well, I want three things.
One, I want my wife to try the rum...
[Jon] ...and my daughter to ride the goat.
And three, I want to beat you in arm wrestling.
How old are you? [speaking Spanish]
[in English] Seventy.
[in Spanish] I'm not leaving yet.
I just want to say hi.
[John Chancellor] This is NBC Nightly News.
Cuba's Fidel Castro is coming to New York to address the United Nations.
His trip will be a serious problem for America's security people,
since there will be many anti-Castro demonstrations.
There was just one American on that plane with Fidel Castro, from Havana to New York City.
He is freelance journalist Jon Alpert.
[in Spanish] What do you want to ask?
[Jon in English] When you travel to a place like New York
where people have announced they want to kill you, are you afraid?
Are you afraid?
[interpreter in English] I am of the following opinion.
[interpreter] Nobody dies before his time comes.
-[continues speaking Spanish] -[interpreter] So I am calm.
[interpreter] I know I am going to die. I just don't know when.
[Jon] They say that you never take your bulletproof vest off.
-[speaking Spanish] -[interpreter in English] What vest?
[Jon] Everybody says you always have a bulletproof vest.
[in English] I will land in New York like this.
[interpreter] I have a moral one. A moral vest.
-[continues in Spanish] -[interpreter] It's strong.
[interpreter] That one has protected me always.
[in Spanish] The landing gear is coming down.
We're landing already?
-[Jon] Thank you. -[woman] Thank you.
[Jon] Welcome to New York, Fidel.
[man 1 in English] Everybody back inside, please.
[man 2 in Spanish] We have to get back. [Jon] Back inside?
[man 3 in Spanish] This is strange.
[man in English] Return to your seats. Have your documents available.
[Jon] Where are you from?
US Customs.
The president should fill it out?
Someone can do that for him.
-[Jon] It's incredible, isn't it? -I think so.
[in Spanish] Don't fucking fill mine out.
[in English] This is outrageous.
This is outrageous. This is the only word.
[Jon] Why do they do this?
I don't know. I don't know who to blame for this.
[in Spanish] Did they ask for your papers?
The American journalist captured this whole mess.
That wasn't part of the plan.
Castro has not been seen since he arrived in New York.
He has remained at the Cuban Mission in Midtown Manhattan
under the tightest security ever seen in New York.
Yes to Cuba!
We don't want communism!
Down with Fidel!
Fidel Castro is surrounded by an army of security people,
but Jon Alpert managed to get into the mission
for an exclusive visit with Castro.
-[Jon] Good morning. -[in English] Good morning.
-[in Spanish] You have a new assistant? -[Jon in Spanish] My wife.
How are you?
And the baby?
Very well.
[Jon in English] Listen, Fidel.
What do you think about the demonstrators?
[interpreter in English] I admire those against...
[interpreter] because they are active. They move around. They work.
And I thank those who are in favor of me.
I admire them more. They are more courageous.
-[Jon] Have time to show us your room? -[speaking Spanish]
[interpreter in English] Yes, but I'll have to leave soon.
And the room is in disorder.
-[Jon in English] You clean it yourself? -[interpreter speaking Spanish]
-[speaking Spanish] -[interpreter in English] I really don't.
[interpreter] The proof... it's not clean.
-[Fidel speaking Spanish] -[interpreter] The living room.
-[Jon] What have you read? -[speaking Spanish]
[interpreter] I was reading this.
-[Fidel in English] Daily News. -[interpreter] Daily News, for instance.
[Jon] That's a nice photograph.
-[interpreter and Fidel speaking Spanish] -[interpreter in English] I think it is.
-[speaking Spanish] -[interpreter] The kitchen.
[Jon] What do you have in the icebox? You drink beer? [man] Let me see.
[interpreter in English] There are some beers. Want one?
[Jon] It's too early.
And you shouldn't drink before you speak. -[interpreter speaking Spanish] -[chuckles]
[interpreter in English] True.
[interpreter in English] Want to see the bedroom?
-[interpreter] Here's where Castro sleeps. -[laughter]
[Jon] Some people don't believe you ever sleep.
[interpreter] I sleep very soundly.
I forget about all problems.
Of course, I don't sleep with my clothes on.
[Jon] That's for tonight. We'll film that.
[interpreter in English] If you want.
-[interpreter] If you don't wake me up. -[Jon] We'll be quiet.
[Jon] Is this your nighttime reading?
[interpreter] I haven't read this yet.
[interpreter] But I plan to.
It's in English.
Maybe I'll practice my English.
-It's time? -[interpreter] We have to be on our way.
[woman in Spanish] Good luck.
[John] Fidel Castro told the United Nations
that unless the differences between the rich and poor countries
are bridged peacefully and wisely, the future will be apocalyptic.
[in Spanish] Why should some go barefoot
so others can drive their fancy cars?
I speak for the children of the world
who don't even have a piece of bread.
[in Spanish] Where's the journalist?
[interpreter in English] Where is your boss?
[woman in Spanish] He's at the TV station.
He's there while you guys are here?
-[interpreter] And now you're here. -[woman] He'll be here later.
-[interpreter] You finally came. -[continues in Spanish]
[interpreter] You sent the women ahead. And now you came.
[interpreter] What were you doing? Tell me.
[Jon] Do you really want me to tell?
If you don't mind.
[Jon] I was fighting with NBC.
[interpreter] They didn't want to broadcast your work?
[Jon] Some of the good parts they wanted to cut.
[interpreter in English] Why don't we sell it to another channel?
Don't you have competition here between channels?
[Jon] Seriously, Fidel.
What do you think the reactions will be to your speech?
[Fidel] I think my speech was constructive.
A speech about peace.
It calls for international collaboration.
[Jon] You're busy. I don't want to be selfish.
[Jon in English] Thank you.
[in Spanish] I'm not going to talk to you now.
I'm going to sit and relax.
We'll see each other later.
[Jon in English] What would you do if you were mayor of New York?
There's eight million people in Cuba and in New York.
[interpreter in English] If I were mayor of New York...
-the first thing I would do is to resign. -[laughs]
[Jon] Why?
[interpreter in English] This is a city that cannot be governed.
And also, it has many debts.
When will you come back to Cuba?
[Jon] Are you tired of us already?
[in Spanish] You haven't bothered me at all.
I see us as family.
[Jon] Thanks for your time.
[interpreter in English] I wish you much success.
Have a good trip back.
Thank you so much.
[Jon] Fidel's successful visit signals the possibility of warmer relations
with the United States.
For the first time since the Revolution,
an American national team is playing in Havana.
[Jon] The Cubans squeak out a 6-to-4 victory.
After the game,
Fidel makes it easier for Cuban exiles to return and visit their families.
[in Spanish] Have a good trip.
We wish you a happy family reunion.
Hi.
-[Jon] Are you going to Cuba? -Yes.
-Have you ever been before? -No.
Never?
Who are you going to see for the first time?
My grandmother.
-Never seen Grandma before? -No.
What does she look like?
-Old. -[woman exclaims]
-[Jon] How long's it take to fly there? -Forty-four minutes.
-[Jon] That's all? -Yeah.
[Jon] How long since you've been to Cuba?
Eighteen years, and my sister, 19.
Nineteen.
Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
-[all exclaiming] -Look at my mother! My mother, my mother!
My brother! My brother! My brother!
[woman 1 in Spanish] What would you like, Mom?
Perfume.
[woman 2] It's called Fire.
[in English] My God, beautiful!
[Jon] The dollars and gifts coming in with visiting relatives from the US
fuels a desire for consumer goods that the Revolution cannot accommodate.
The US State Department office in Havana
is swamped with people trying to leave the island.
[Jon] Why do you want to leave?
[in Spanish] The system. It doesn't work.
[chanting in Spanish] They should get out! They should get out!
[man] Long live Fidel!
[Jon in English] For the first time since I've been coming to Cuba,
there's trouble in the streets.
Crowds are attacking people
trying to get into the embassy and leave Cuba.
[in Spanish] She's a prostitute from my neighborhood.
[Jon in English] Are you sure?
They should leave.
We don't want them. They're antisocial.
For 21 years, we've given everything.
For our country and for Fidel.
But those people are provocateurs.
[Jon in English] What do you think about this?
Well, I mustn't tell you here, okay?
Just give me a hint.
I applied to leave Cuba, too.
My father and my brothers and my sister are there in Florida.
I'm waiting.
My father sent a boat to Mariel already.
[Jon] Fidel says if you're not with the Revolution, it's time to get out.
He opens up the port of Mariel
and allows American boats to pick up those who want to leave.
[Jon] Why do you want to go?
[in Spanish] I seek freedom.
I want to live in a free country.
[Jon in English] What's your story? Where were you before?
-I was in jail. -[Jon] You were in jail?
Him, too?
-And him? -Yes.
[Jon] Did the government pick you up and say, "Come on, let's go"?
Yeah.
[Jon] Many of Cuba's jails have been unlocked, and some mental hospitals, too.
Their former residents happily pile onto the boats.
What type of people did you end up with?
Crazy people, prisoners. They say political prisoners.
We got some criminals.
Who knows?
[Jon] The Mariel Bay boatlift is the largest movement of refugees
in the shortest period of time in the history of the two countries.
[Jon] Hey, Cristobal!
[in Spanish] How are you?
-[in English] How are you? -[in Spanish] Good.
[in English] Still strong.
[in Spanish] Always.
[in English] You look great!
You still got your hair? Whoa!
[in Spanish] It's black.
I'm 80 years old.
[Jon] Since we left, have you missed one day of work? Been sick?
[in Spanish] Never.
[Jon] Never been sick. In seven years?
Not in my whole life.
Not in 80 years.
[Jon in English] There's all this stuff going on in Cuba.
People leaving in boats.
Any of it affect you?
[in Spanish] My life is always the same.
Always normal.
[Jon] Ángel! Ángel!
-[laughs] -[Jon in English] Nice to see you.
-Gregorio! -[exclaims]
[Jon] How are you doing?
[in Spanish] We're great.
Always strong.
[Jon in English] What's this one's name?
[Gregorio in Spanish] Jet Black. [Jon] This is Jet Black. Hello.
[Jon in Spanish] The other one?
-[Gregorio] Strong Arm. -Strong Arm.
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] Better than a tractor?
It doesn't mess up the ground.
What's the secret to your happiness, Cristobal?
[in Spanish] We're always working and walking.
Exercising.
That's the secret to being healthy and strong.
[in English] Let's see who's stronger now. Eighty years old?
[Cristobal in Spanish] The three of us look good.
[Jon in English] This is the street?
[in Spanish] Where is Tacon Street between Luz and Empedrado?
That's far away.
[man] Do you know her?
[Jon in English] I've decided to look for a little girl I filmed 16 years ago.
Her name is Caridad.
[Jon in Spanish] Where do you live?
I live on Tacon Street.
You are welcome anytime.
-[Jon in English] This is the place? -[man in Spanish] This must be it.
I know her.
[Jon in English] You know her?
[in Spanish] Her brother lives upstairs. But she lives in a housing complex.
-[Jon in English] Hello. -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon in English] Do you remember me?
-No. -[Jon] You don't remember me.
[in Spanish] Are you sure?
[in English] I know you!
[in Spanish] But I don't.
-[Jon] Who's this? -[Caridad] My mom.
[Jon] That's your mother. Do you remember me?
No. You don't know.
[Jon in Spanish] Where do you live?
I live over there.
On Tacon Street, number six.
Between O'Reilly and Empedrado.
You are welcome anytime.
A teacher.
A nurse.
[Jon in English] You said you wanted to be a nurse.
What did you become?
[in Spanish] Well, I was in school.
When I was in 9th grade, I got married.
[Jon] You got married? [in Spanish] How old were you?
-Fourteen years old. -[Jon in English] You were 14?
When she wanted to get married, did you think she was crazy?
[in Spanish] Yes, I did.
[Jon in English] You dropped out of school.
You had kids? [speaking Spanish]
[in English] Two kids?
-[Jon] Who's that? -[Caridad] My children.
Are you kidding?
This kid's the same age as when I filmed you.
What's your name?
-Wilder. -[Jon] You're Wilder.
What's your name?
Milady Velasquez González.
-[Jon] We're gonna play baseball? -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] Throw the ball down. Attaboy.
Okay, Wilder!
[Jon in English] He's strong!
Can you hit?
-[speaking Spanish] No! -[Jon] Come on! Come on!
-[Jon in English] What's our snack? -[Caridad speaking Spanish]
[Jon] A banana milkshake to celebrate.
Since we saw you,
the situation with food has gotten worse, better or the same?
[in Spanish] I was skinny. Look at me now.
[Jon in English] To our happy reunion after 16 years.
If I come back in another 16 years,
what would you like me to find?
[in Spanish] That my kids are grown and have careers.
I want my own house.
And I want us to be happy together.
[Jon in English] I hope it's sooner than 16 years. Bye!
-Okay, bye. Bye. -[speaking Spanish]
[in English] Ice cream.
Very good.
[Jon] For Caridad and people well-served by the Revolution, things seem okay.
But 3,000 miles away, the Berlin Wall is coming down.
It's the end of the Soviet Union
and their 8-billion-dollar-a-day subsidy of the Cuban economy.
[in Spanish] We face a difficult special period.
We have an extraordinary mission.
Save the Revolution in Cuba!
-Save socialism in Cuba. -[applause]
[Jon in English] Were you surprised to see what happened in Eastern Europe?
[in Spanish] The whole world is surprised by what happened.
They're probably making a mistake.
[Jon in English] How long has the crane been broken?
The crane's been broken for two days now.
[Jon] Do you get frustrated when things break down?
[in Spanish] I'd like it to be easier.
But not everything in life is easy. [laughs]
[Jon in English] How long has it taken to get this far?
You've got the frame built.
-A couple of years. -[Jon] A couple years?
[in Spanish] Two years?
-Two years. -[Jon in English] Not fast. Not fast.
[in Spanish] All this wood came from the Socialist Camp
and the ships aren't bringing any more.
-[Jon] How long before you run out? -[in Spanish] One month.
One month.
[Jon in English] You used to get these chassis from the Soviet Union.
Now you buy them.
Is that a problem?
They want money, cash money.
-That's trouble for you? -That can be big trouble for us.
You can't buy these?
We cannot buy them.
We will have to confront certain troubles.
Maybe we'll have to shut, close.
[Jon] When I filmed in 1975, these shelves were full.
What's for sale now?
[in Spanish] Here we have sugar.
Four pounds per person.
Here we have rice.
-Five pounds per person. -[Jon] One bag per person per month.
That's it. That's the ration.
What's supposed to be here?
[in Spanish] Canned goods. For example, Russian beef.
Fruits, sweets, ice cream.
[Jon] It's all gone. Not a big selection.
[man in Spanish] We don't have anything.
[Jon in English] He's giving you a song. Would you rather cheese?
[in Spanish] It's all he can do. The supply is limited.
[Jon] It's rationed. You can't get more.
Would you like to see cheese more often?
[in Spanish] Yes, of course.
[Jon] When was the last time you had cheese?
[in Spanish] Around ten days ago.
[Jon] You have a picture of Fidel?
Fidel.
[Jon] You want me to ask him about the shortages?
[in Spanish] Yeah.
[in Spanish] Look at this crowd!
Good evening. How are you?
[man] Here is the North American journalist you know.
[Jon in English] How's your memory? Remember me?
[Jon in English] If you could talk to our new president Mr. Clinton,
what might you say?
[in Spanish] I would say good morning or good evening.
I would wish him good health and success.
-And I would tell him-- -[Jon] Success for his victory.
[in Spanish] What?
[Jon in English] I'm translating. I'm doing the best I can.
Fidel, what about the shortages in the economy?
[in Spanish] Our fundamental problems are not Europe's problems,
not America's problems.
Our problem is the blockade
and the end of the Socialist Bloc.
85% of our commerce was with socialist countries.
Especially with the Soviet Union.
Our fuel supply was guaranteed through this trade.
The collapse of the Soviet Union is sad and dramatic.
It's a great tragedy for all those countries.
There are gifts for you, Comandante.
[Jon in English] I broke the blockade. I brought you the best beer in the US.
[in Spanish] How strong is it?
[Jon in English] Very strong.
[in Spanish] Thank you. I feel well-compensated -for answering all your questions. -[laughter]
You are a talented journalist.
I wish you success
in solving America's social and economic problems.
[in English] You want us to resolve the social and economic problems in the US.
-You wish us success. -[in Spanish] What?
[Jon in English] I'm translating.
You used to speak English.
[in Spanish] We've received so much aggression from the USA, I forgot English.
[Jon] You got so much aggression, you forgot how to speak English.
Fidel, my daughter skipped school to see you.
Can you write a note to Tami's teachers?
[in Spanish] She's here?
-[interpreter] A note for her teacher. -What?
[Jon] What's your teacher's name?
[in English] Which is the name of your teacher?
-[Tami] Señor Krinsky. -[man] Señor Krinsky.
[in Spanish] How do you spell it?
[Tami] K-R-I-N...
N...
[Tami] S-K...
-[Fidel] K... -[Tami] Y.
[Tami in Spanish] Thank you very much.
-[Fidel in Spanish] This is for me. -[laughter]
[in English] Do you have a message for the children in America?
[in Spanish] Greetings to the children.
May they all be intelligent and charming like you.
[Jon in English] Let me see. It says, "Please excuse Tami from her absence."
[Jon] Fidel says that you might have problems getting gasoline
because of the troubles with the Soviet Union.
What if you can't get gas?
[in Spanish] I'll take the public bus.
Of course.
[Jon] Look at the cars waiting for gasoline.
It's bad for Cuban people for gasoline.
[Jon] It's really hard. Not enough?
Not enough.
[Jon] Everybody's on bicycles.
[Jon] Where are we going?
[man] We are going to my house.
-[Jon] What's your name? -[Luis] Luis Amores. -[Jon] Luis Amores. -[Luis] Yeah.
[Jon] What is this big line?
-[Luis] Food. -[Jon] People waiting for food?
[Jon] Let's go see.
-What's going on? -[Luis] For fish.
-[Jon] The fish store. -[Luis] Yeah. Fish store.
[Jon] How much fish can he buy? How many pounds?
One pound per person.
-[Jon] One per person? For how long? -For one week.
[in Spanish] We don't want a lot, just enough to survive.
-One piece of bread per person. -[Jon in English] One piece per person...
One bread per day.
-[Jon in English] Not enough. -No more.
-Not enough! -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] What can you do?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] No flour.
No. There's no flour.
The bread's no good.
[woman in Spanish] It's made from sweet potato.
[Jon in English] It doesn't taste good. It tastes like sweet potato.
[Jon] What does he do?
Drugs.
-He sells drugs? -Sometimes.
What type?
Cocaine. -Really? -Yeah, really.
[Jon] Who's this?
-Hi, hi. -My brother.
[Jon] What's your name?
-Roberto. -Roberto.
-So long. -[Jon] See you later.
[Jon] The people here, mostly working people?
Poor people.
-I live here. -[Jon] You live here?
[Luis] I was born here.
-This is my home. -Your home?
-[Luis] Yeah. -It's very dark.
My bedroom.
Hey! TV set! Not bad. -Nah. -Not bad.
[Jon] Nice bed.
[Luis] Good for me.
-How many people live with you? -Eight.
-Serious? -Five brothers.
-Are you kidding? -Not kidding.
-[Jon] Luis? -[Luis speaking Spanish]
[Jon] What happened to the lights? It's completely black.
-[Luis] Blackout. -Blackout?
-[Luis] Every day, four hours. -Every day, four hours, no lights.
-[Jon] I've learned many things tonight. -[Luis] Thank you.
[Jon] I'll see you next time I come to Cuba.
-[Luis] Okay. -[Jon] All right.
-How are things? -Good!
[in English] How are your animals?
[Jon in English] The animals are not safe. [in Spanish] Why not?
[Jon in English] Somebody is coming and what are they doing?
They're killing your animals?
-[in Spanish] They're eating them. -[Jon] Who?
I don't know.
-[Jon in English] There isn't any meat. -[laughter]
[Jon] This is terrible.
[both in Spanish] Very bad.
-[Jon in English] What type of animal? -[in Spanish] An ox.
[Jon] One of your oxen?
They killed him at night.
-[Jon] How are you gonna work-- -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] You're gonna work with only one oxen.
[Jon in Spanish] And if they steal this one?
I'm left with nothing.
[Jon in English] How much does one cost?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] Ten thousand pesos?
[in Spanish] That's 20 years of work.
Twenty years of work.
[Jon in English] How many have you lost?
[in Spanish] One ox.
One cow.
One horse.
And four calves.
This is our yucca.
[Jon in English] That's beautiful. [in Spanish] Delicious?
-[Jon in English] The best. -[in English] Special.
[Jon] Special. But they steal this?
[in Spanish] They steal it.
[Jon] What's this?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] Corn.
They steal this also?
They take everything.
-This is terrible! -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon in English] Horrible.
[in Spanish] You work and work and they steal everything.
[Jon in English] Gregorio. What's happening to Cuba?
[in Spanish] What can we do?
-You can't do anything about it. -We can't do anything.
It's very sad.
[Jon] You shut the door. [in Spanish] Why are you doing this?
-So they can't take him. -[in English] So nobody will kill him?
[in Spanish] Otherwise, they'll eat him.
[Gregorio] It's very sad.
Because if I buy another ox,
they'll steal it.
[Jon in English] Have your friends been robbed? [in Spanish] Yes.
They'll break into your house and steal absolutely everything.
[Jon in English] Let's drink some rum.
[in Spanish] Let's drink our problems away.
[Jon in English] Have a little rum and forget all this stuff!
-[in Spanish] This is the good stuff. -[Jon speaking Spanish]
[Jon in English] Remember last time we had a contest?
Who is stronger, right?
What do you think?
You think you're the strongest.
You're two times stronger.
[groans] I don't have a chance.
-[Jon in English] Look, Ma, no hands! -[laughing]
Pretty fast.
[in Spanish, English] Your beautiful sister! -[chuckles] -Very nice.
You're strong and healthy?
[Jon] Nobody here.
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] Nobody in the streets.
Where are your friends?
[in Spanish] They stay home.
They're afraid that their houses will be robbed.
[Jon] The old men are scared to go out at night.
Because there are thieves.
[all] Yes.
They'll kill you with a machete
and chop you up. [Jon in English] They attack with machetes?
[Jon in English] Those guys are bad?
[in Spanish] They are bad. They steal the oxen.
-[Jon] Do you have beer? -No.
They don't have that either.
Well, what do they have? Nothing?
-They have absolutely nothing. -[Jon] They got nothing?
How long since there's no beer?
[Jon in Spanish] How many months?
[in English] You can't even remember.
[in Spanish] And rum?
-How long since no rum? -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon in English] Yesterday, there was rum but everybody drank it.
[in Spanish] And meat? [in English] When was there meat?
No meat in the stores. Thieves in the streets.
That's right.
[Jon] What's going on?
[Jon in English] Everything's bad.
[in Spanish] It's no way to live.
[Jon in English] I want to see if the troubles affecting the Borregos are impacting social services
like this school near their farm.
Romeo and Juliet.
How romantic!
Saints don't move even when they grant prayers.
Then don't move
while I act out my prayer.
My sin has been taken from my lips by yours.
[Jon in English] Very nice.
The kids all seem very happy, healthy,
but these past years have been very difficult.
Have conditions in school improved, stayed the same?
Is it better or worse?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] Worse?
What would you like to have?
-[Jon in English] She wants food! -[laughs]
You'd like to buy much more food.
This is what the kids have to eat.
-[man] Yes. Potatoes. -[Jon] Potatoes.
-What's over here? -[men speaking Spanish]
-[man in English] Eggs. -[Jon] Eggs.
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] You don't have meat.
[in English] Not today.
[Jon] So where do you get meat?
It's not easy.
[Jon] Although all social services are still free, shortages are everywhere.
Even at the main hospital in Havana,
the crown jewel of Cuba's health care system.
How are things in the pharmacy?
Do you have enough medicine?
[in Spanish] We have scarcities in specific areas.
[Jon in English] You're missing all your antacids.
It's empty.
How long have you been out?
[in Spanish] We've been out of antacids for a week.
[Jon in English] About four months you've been out of this antibiotic.
You're working with 30% of the things you need.
You're missing everything else.
[Jon] What's this?
[woman] The emergency room.
[Jon] Doctor, how old are these syringes?
That looks like it's from the last century.
Do you have sufficient facilities to sterilize all these old syringes?
No.
[Jon] Most of your shelves have nothing.
[doctor] Nothing!
[Jon in Spanish] How many times do you recycle the gloves?
[nurse] Until it breaks.
It depends on how many times we use it.
-[Jon in English] It's terrible! -[sighs]
What can I do, my dear friend? What can we do?
-Do you get frustrated? -More or less.
[Jon] It's been five years since the economic troubles began.
I want to see how my friend Luis is doing.
[in Spanish] Do you know Luis Amores? Luis Amores?
-[in English] No, you don't know him? -[in English] No.
-[Jon in Spanish] How are you, my friend? -All good.
I'm looking for my friend.
Come here and help me.
[woman] It's the guy from around the corner.
-[Jon in English] You know him? -[in English] Yes.
[Jon] Excuse me, I'm looking for Luis.
Are you his brother?
I am. Brother.
[in English] Can you help me? I'm looking for Luis.
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] He's in prison.
Why'd they put him in prison?
[in Spanish] That's what I ask, "Why is he in prison?"
[Jon in English] Luis is your brother. Were you surprised when they arrested him?
-[in Spanish] Yes. -[in English] Did he steal?
[Jon in English] Didn't steal? No drugs?
No.
[in English] Luis did nothing. Nothing.
[Jon] How long does he have to be in prison?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon in English] Four years!
-You visited Luis in jail? -[in Spanish] Yes.
-How's he doing? -[continues in Spanish]
[Jon in English] He's strong.
[in Spanish] Why?
Because of the food that we bring him.
[Jon in English] What do you want the people in the US to know?
[in Spanish] It's the year 1995.
I have to carry water.
[Jon in English] You have to walk 100 meters to get water.
Climb the stairs.
[man] I have a sick mother.
There's no medicine.
And the hospitals are unable to help her.
It's no wonder that everyone wants to leave.
-[exclaims] -[in English] Everybody!
[Jon] Where?
The United States.
[Jon] Your husband wants to go. You, too?
[in Spanish] I would take advantage of the opportunity.
This is no way to live.
[Jon in English] Thirty five years...
Of bad thinking. That's the problem.
Hey, Roberto... United States?
[Jon in English] You have no interest in going.
[in Spanish] What kind of crap is that? You bring him here and talk this shit.
What's fucking wrong with you?
What bullshit.
I can't understand this guy.
Have I ever told you that I wanted to leave Cuba?
Have I said it?
Never.
Why are you attacking me?
You can't even speak about your brother.
You won't even say that it's an injustice.
"No, not me. I don't want to talk."
That's harsh.
He is your brother.
[Jon] Hey, Cristobal! Gregorio! Ángel!
[in English] What happened to your animals?
[in Spanish] They were eaten.
[Jon in English] They ate them all?
[in Spanish] They didn't leave us with anything.
Even the horse. [laughs]
[Jon] You can't work.
[in Spanish] We don't have animals to pull the plow.
Without them, it's impossible to work.
They broke in.
They took the calf to the citrus orchard and killed him.
[Jon in English] It's very quiet on the farm now.
Yes.
-[Jon in English] Do you like it? -No.
[Jon in English] You'd like to hear the noise of animals.
[in Spanish] But now?
Now you don't hear them.
[Jon in English] I remember you used to have cows and horses,
pigs here in the house.
[Jon] Do the people steal the yucca?
They steal a lot.
They have no morals.
They steal everything.
-[Jon] What are you looking for? -[in Spanish] Beans.
There aren't many left.
Here's one.
Little beans.
This is useless.
Weeding is all we can do.
[Jon in Spanish] What's wrong with Cristobal?
[Gregorio] He's sad because they ate our oxen.
Now he has no way to survive.
[Jon in English] Does he sit like this often?
[Gregorio speaking Spanish] All the time.
[Jon in English] This is the first time I saw you like this.
-You feel sad? -[in Spanish] Yes.
-Why? -[continues in Spanish]
[Jon in English] You don't have the means to work anymore.
It's very bad, Cristobal.
[in Spanish] Yes.
They made us useless.
Three old men.
They've eaten our animals and left us with nothing.
[Jon] This beach is an hour away from the Borregos' farm.
It's this natural beauty
that prompts Fidel to announce a way to energize the country.
[in Spanish] Tourism is now essential to our economy.
[Jon in English] Where are you from?
Japanese.
-[Jon] Do you like this? -Yeah, it's very nice.
[Jon] How much is the bill?
-[man exclaims] -There's 100 bucks here and the bill is...
480 bucks!
And this is Cuba!
-[Jon speaking Spanish] -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon in English] How much for a ride?
[speaking Spanish] [in English] Six dollars for one hour.
[Jon] Six dollars for one hour. Okay. That's a deal. Let's go.
[Jon] Ronaldo?
Where's the money coming from for these restorations?
[in Spanish] Most of it comes from tourism.
Hotels generate money to restore Old Havana.
[Jon] What's that?
[Jon] An arts market.
Let's get off.
[Jon] How much in one day can you get?
About four dollars?
One day, I got $20.
-[Jon] How's everything? -We're playing softball here.
-[Jon] And? -Two and one. Unbelievable.
-Where are you from? -[men] Long Island.
How do you sneak past the guys at customs?
-We're legal this year. -[Jon] Are you really?
Last year wasn't this busy.
There wasn't as many tourists last year as this year.
-[Jon] This market's full, right? -[man] Yeah.
[Jon] How much for Che?
-[speaking Spanish] -Fifteen dollars!
That's capitalism.
Che Guevara's gonna roll over in his grave if you charge $15.
What were you doing before you began selling in the market?
-I was working as a journalist. -As a journalist!
You gave up this honorable profession
to sell pictures of Che Guevara to tourists?
I was working like you.
But I receive more money for this.
[Jon] What was your job?
You were a chemical engineer.
-[Jon] Your job before? -Mechanical engineer.
You were a mechanical engineer, now you're selling plates in the market.
[Jon] Today we're gonna go look for our old friend Luis Amores.
We came here to see him in 1995, but he was in jail.
I don't know where he is.
Luis lives in that apartment house.
Last time you were in jail.
They say they put you in jail
because you were working in the black market.
Yeah.
-[Jon] Who's that? -This is my girlfriend.
Your girlfriend? Come here, please.
What's her name?
-[Luis speaking Spanish] -Santa.
Hello! Good morning.
-Who's that? -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] Santa's mother. Nice to see you.
What food do you have?
-The refrigerators are all broken. -Yeah, breaking.
-[Jon] How much rent do you pay? -[Luis] None.
-[Jon] Your salary is what? -Six dollars a month.
Six dollars a month.
[Jon] What's changed in the last eight years?
Nothing. [in Spanish] Things just got older.
-The bread factory from your last visit. -[Jon] We went to the bread store.
-[Luis in English] It was a factory. -[Jon] This used to be the bread factory.
The whole roof fell in.
Holy cow!
[Luis] Watch out.
[Jon] The roof's gonna fall down?
-[Luis] Watch out! -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] When did it fall?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] Two years.
They haven't done anything to fix it.
[Jon] There's lots of kids, so it's very dangerous.
[Jon] I have to walk over this bridge?
[woman] The bathrooms.
[Jon] How do you get there?
[Luis in Spanish] You can't.
[Jon] What do you do?
[Jon] You go to the bathroom in the streets?
-[speaking Spanish, laughs] -[Jon] No!
[Jon] The only place that you can get water is over there.
She connects the water there and turns it on.
But she can't walk there.
She falls down.
[Jon] Horrible. That's terrible.
[Jon] It's terrible.
[Jon] Ladies, how's everything?
-[Jon] Who's this? -[Luis] A friend of mine.
And what's his job? [speaking Spanish]
-The cigar factory. -[Jon] He works in the cigar factory.
[man] Here we have a...
-[Luis] Cohiba. -[man] An expensive mark.
[Jon] That's the most expensive cigars, Cohiba.
-[man] Cohiba. -[Jon] In the store, how much?
[man] $225.
[Jon] $225 in the store for this?
-Yeah. -[Jon] How much do you sell it for?
This is $60.
Best quality.
This is $50.
[Jon] Where did you get these? How did you get these?
[man] The government gives me, every month, two boxes.
But I steal some, too.
[Jon laughing] They give you two, and you steal...
-Four! Two more. -[man] Two more.
Because it's not enough for me.
What happens if they catch you?
What?
If they catch you?
No. I go to jail.
I'll go to jail if the government takes this film.
[in Spanish] 80% of people live off the black market.
When you see the police, do you get afraid?
Sometimes.
-Is everything okay? -Immigration comes to speak with you.
[Jon] They took your ID card and my ID card.
Immigration for you.
Policeman for me.
-More police coming? -Yeah.
Shut my camera off?
[man] You can't film here, around here in the town.
-Put the camera in the car, please. -[car door closes]
[in Spanish] It wasn't a problem.
Just a mix-up.
Nothing happened.
-[Jon] We're okay. -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] Everything's okay, Mama. No problem.
Was your mother worried?
Of course.
-[Jon] You have a very tight family. -[in English] Family.
[Jon] You cried?
-[Jon] Luis, she loves you. -[laughs]
I'm looking for my friend.
Her name is Caridad.
Can you help me?
I'm looking for this woman.
Caridad.
-[speaking Spanish] -Do you know them?
[in Spanish] Over there.
[in Spanish] Looks like it's Wilder.
-[Jon in English] Wilder? -[in English] Jon?
[Jon] I'm Jon!
-I remember you. -[Jon] How are you? Nice to see you.
-How's everything? -Sorry.
-[Jon] It's okay. You were sleeping? -Yeah.
Do you know where is my mother?
I have no idea. Where?
-In Tampa, Florida. -[Jon] Are you serious?
Five years ago.
Have any pictures of her?
Right here?
-Wow! She's Americanized. -[Wilder chuckles]
[Jon] Oh, my goodness. And who-- Wait, not so fast.
You don't remember me? Remember me?
And who's this beautiful girl?
[Milady] Melinda.
Do you see the picture of Grandma? [speaking Spanish]
[Wilder in Spanish] Who's that?
[Wilder] Grandma is in the United States.
-[Jon in English] Ready to go? -I need a visa.
[Jon] How about you? What's your plan?
[in Spanish] There's no future here.
-[Wilder] Salad. -[Jon] Empty.
-It's empty. -[Jon] Yes.
We don't have money.
When Mom sends money, we buy food.
Otherwise, it's empty.
This building hasn't had water for 25 days.
-[Jon] Seriously? -Without water.
[Jon] When you open the pipe?
[Wilder in English] No water.
[in Spanish] We shower at my friend's house.
[Jon] This is your neighbor? You get along? How are you?
Nice to meet you. [in Spanish] I'm Jon.
-[in English] Do you have water? -[laughs]
[in Spanish] No, buddy.
-Would you like a drink, Jon? -Would I like a drink?
I can offer you a drink. Some wine?
Why not?
-[Jon] You want some wine? -[in Spanish] Why not?
[in English] What are we toasting?
[in Spanish] For lots of money and health.
-More money for diapers. -[Jon laughs]
[Wilder] This is what a Cuban backyard looks like.
We have pigeons.
Ducks, geese and roosters.
Keeping these animals guarantees that we will have food.
Look at the difference.
Between our building and those houses.
Tourism workers live there.
They have access to dollars and are well off.
Tourists are more valued than Cubans.
That's the truth.
It's all good. Let's go dance to Reggaeton.
Do you want some?
No, I'm all set.
This cologne is called Sport. [in English] Sport, in English.
We are carrying the torch of truth and justice
throughout South America.
We're watching a celebration of Fidel Castro.
All lies.
I'm not a communist. I'm a realist.
Let's go to the disco.
♪ Women like ugly guys Don't tell me otherwise ♪
[Jon] We just entered the little town of Caimito de Guayabal.
Last time we were here, five years ago,
our three old friends were having a lot of trouble.
I'm a little bit nervous about what we're gonna find.
Hey, Gregorio, you're still alive!
[Jon] Tremendous!
[in English] Good. Gregorio, you still okay? -[speaking Spanish] Yeah. -Yeah?
-[speaking Spanish] Yeah. -Yeah?
-[Jon] Ángel! -[exclaims]
[Jon] How are you?
-[in English] You look great! -[laughs]
-How old are you? -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] Ninety-two!
Holy cow!
You're still working.
How old are you, Gregorio?
-[speaking Spanish] -You're only 88.
What is this house?
-Gregorio's gonna move in here? -[speaking Spanish]
[Jon] This is the kitchen.
The bathroom.
-This is gonna be your master bedroom. -[laughs]
Now that you have this house,
you need a girlfriend.
-[speaking Spanish] -You're gonna get married?
Yes, I'm going to get married.
He says he's gonna get married.
Does he have a girlfriend? [laughs]
-How old is she? -[speaking Spanish]
-[Jon] She's only 30? -[both laughing]
-[Jon] It's true? -[in Spanish] Yes.
-[Jon] What is that? -[in Spanish] An ox.
[Jon] You got an ox.
Two.
[Jon] When?
What's his name?
[Gregorio] Pretty Boy.
[Jon] Now you have oxen.
How many years did you work to buy them?
Five years.
[Jon] Where's Cristobal?
Cristobal had an operation on his throat.
[in Spanish] He's at home.
[Jon] Let's go to town and see Cristobal and your sister.
[Jon] Cristobal! How are you?
-[inaudible] -[Jon] How's everything?
You can't speak?
[in Spanish] He had an operation because of cancer.
[Jon] Cristobal, are you working?
[Jon] You're not working?
Only you and Ángel are in the fields?
-[speaking Spanish] -[Jon] Only two brothers working.
And Cristobal sits at home every day.
[doctor in Spanish] Cristobal had cancer of the larynx.
-Six months ago, we removed his larynx. -[Jon] You cut out his larynx.
-[doctor] He loses his voice. -He lost his voice.
Was Cristobal's treatment free?
[doctor in Spanish] Yes.
[Jon] Can he speak again?
He'll need an electric larynx.
-Do you have this in Cuba? -[in English] No.
Why not?
[in Spanish] It costs too much.
If I bring one, will you put it in?
He'll speak perfectly.
Where are we going?
The endoscopy room.
[Jon] What is that?
[doctor in English] An instrument to take tissue samples.
[Jon] A good one?
[doctor] This is very old.
It's not sharp.
You have to pull very hard to take the biopsy.
It's not very good for the patient.
This is the equipment they used in the '60s and the '50s.
Now what they use is fiber-optic equipment.
It's flexible.
-Do you have that? -We don't have that here.
How much is your salary? Each month?
-About $25. -$25 a month?
That's less than a taxi driver makes.
Yes. [chuckles]
[Jon] Doctor, thanks a lot. Appreciate it.
[Jon] That's the box I brought from the United States.
Is that going to work?
[in English] I think so.
He saying, "My name is Cristobal."
It's a robotic voice, but very understandable.
[Jon] What's he saying?
He's very thankful... He's very grateful...
because he has his voice back.
He's very grateful for you and me. -For us. -For us.
It's good to hear your voice again!
[Jon] You can call your sister now.
-Lilo, Lilo. -[Jon] Lilo, Lilo! [laughs]
-[Jon] He called your name! "Lilo, Lilo!" -[laughing]
[Jon] Gregorio, Gregorio! He's calling your name!
And Ángel!
He's telling you that you should plant beans.
He's telling you what to do now that he can talk.
-[Jon] He's giving orders now. -[laughs]
Ah, let's celebrate Cristobal's voice!
[Jon] A toast for your brother Cristobal!
And his new voice!
[Jon in English] Cristobal wants to tell me something.
-[in English] Thank you! Thank you! -[all laughing]
[singsong] Luis!
-Yeah! Nice to see ya! -Nice to see you.
Wow! You look great!
And you.
No, I'm old. What happened? You've been eating. You've been eating a lot!
You've been eating. You've been eating a lot!
I changed my life.
I stopped drinking.
You're not drinking but you're eating.
Show me your apartment? I haven't been there in years.
-[in English] The kitchen. -This is gonna be the kitchen.
It's under repair.
[Jon] Nobody can get cement. How did you?
-[Luis] Very expensive. -Yeah!
I paid $20... [stammers]
-[Jon] For three bags? -...for three bags.
[Jon] One month's salary for these bags?
Okay. Where are we going?
We're going to where you work. I'm following you.
What's changed in this neighborhood?
[Luis] Hydroponics. Hydroponics.
[Jon] There's a new program for hydroponic gardening?
They grow this in the back? They actually grow it here?
[Jon] That's interesting.
And you have meat?
-[Luis] Pork. -Pork.
-[in English] Tomato. -Tomatoes.
-[Luis] Pineapple. -Pineapples.
[Jon] Uh-oh! No filming?
[Jon] They're nice tomatoes. Thanks anyway.
[Luis in Spanish] Onions.
[Jon] Onions. Your onions?
How much?
Five pesos, one pound.
[Jon] It's the black market. I know.
Do the police come?
[in English] It's possible.
They buy off the police.
So the police look the other way.
This is my job.
I clean. Every day, I work here.
I clean the garden, I clean the park every day.
[Jon] This park looks very clean.
Good job. Congratulations.
Keep up the good stuff, okay, Luis? Good luck to you, too!
I've written a lot of "Dear Fidel" letters over the years,
usually asking for another interview.
I just heard that I might get to see him for his 80th birthday.
Here we go! All right.
These reporters are here because Fidel's become really ill.
The world wants to find out if he'll attend his birthday celebration.
[in Spanish] Not here. Up there.
No cameras down here.
[in Spanish] Any other suggestions for me?
All cameramen up there.
None down here.
[Jon in English] They're trying to keep me with the reporters,
but I'm gonna stay down here in case Fidel shows up.
Looks like Fidel's not gonna make it.
Here's our answer.
Raúl today. Not Fidel.
No interview.
[announcer in Spanish] Long live Fidel!
Long live Raúl!
This is a beautiful celebration of Fidel's 80th birthday.
Fidel, have a speedy recovery so you can rejoin us.
He's eternal. He'll never die.
He'll guide us forever. [shouts]
[Jon] No Fidel.
It's kind of sad.
It's a nice birthday party, but he wasn't able to come.
It's been six or seven years since we've been to the Borregos' farm. And as we know from what's going on with Fidel...
And as we know from what's going on with Fidel...
nobody lives forever.
It's interesting.
I've been coming to this town for more than 30 years.
I can't see anything that's changed.
The houses look the same. The street looks exactly the same.
It's been frozen in time.
-Lilo! How are you doing? [exclaims] -[laughs]
What happened to Cristobal?
[in Spanish] I'm all alone.
Gregorio also died? You're the only one left. Only you.
They were always wonderful.
They were always wonderful. They always wanted us to be together.
We never separated.
I always took care of them.
They treated me like their mother.
[Jon] Your brothers were my friends.
I thought I was going to get to see them one more time.
I'm sorry.
[Lilo in Spanish] Life is short.
Little by little, we fade away.
We are born together and happy.
Later, we are all alone.
One by one, we pass away.
Life is hard.
[Jon] We are looking for Wilder's house.
My memory says it's here.
[in Spanish] Stop here. Please.
How are you, my friends? Does Wilder live here?
This guy.
Where?
In that apartment.
[Jon] Wilder!
Where's Wilder?
[in Spanish] In the United States. His mother sent for him.
It's the end of Wilder's story in Cuba.
[in English] It was right by the cathedral
that I met little Caridad, Wilder's mother, in 1974.
In those days, there was nothing like this.
So much has changed in Havana in the past two years.
This whole building wasn't here last time I came here.
This is new. Cash machines.
This is everybody in Old Havana trying to get on the Wi-Fi.
Nice to see you.
Selfies. They never had selfies. Hello.
It's a five-minute walk from tourist central
to where my old friend Luis lives.
Luis, anything change here?
[in Spanish] Nothing's changed in 20 years.
But each time you come here,
your friend Luis is moving forward.
I fixed up my house thanks to my business.
-[Jon in Spanish] You have a business? -Yes.
I sell construction materials to repair homes.
Things are much better.
Pork for dinner.
[Jon in English] How much?
-[speaking Spanish] -Twenty dollars?
[Luis] These sweets are expensive.
It's $3.90.
We installed running water.
I bought a tank. Now water lasts all day.
This bathroom cost $350.
It's all thanks to my business.
I buy material at a good price.
I sell it for a profit,
enabling me to do this.
This phone's for my growing business.
So clients can reach me.
What's up?
[woman] I need to tile my kitchen.
How much per box?
Eleven dollars.
[Luis] Take care of her.
What does she want?
[Luis] Tiles.
That's what's left.
See if she wants it.
Construction materials are sold here.
Do you have wood glue?
I'll have some later.
This is a private business where we sell building materials.
My friend Papo runs the shop.
People run businesses from their home,
but the big shops are run by the state.
My dream is to own a store like this.
You just have to have faith...
and guts to succeed.
[Jon] I've been coming to Cuba for 40 years.
When I started, I was young. Look at me now.
It's actually my birthday.
And I thought, what better way to celebrate my birthday than to go visit my old friends the Borregos
in this 1952 Ford!
[Jon in Spanish] How old are you?
Eighty-eight.
[Jon in English] On my way back to Havana
with only one unfinished piece of personal business.
It's Fidel's 90th birthday, and I'm really trying hard to get his attention.
[in Spanish] Happy birthday, Fidel!
We've come to Old Havana where Fidel's old chef works,
hoping he'll help us prepare a special present for Fidel's birthday.
Justo!
How many years did you work with Fidel?
[in Spanish] About thirty years.
[Jon in Spanish] Explain my plan.
[Justo] We'll put this photo on top of a cake.
[Jon in English] Fidel was 53 when we flew to New York together,
and he decided to see if he could do my job.
Do you know how to take photographs?
[in Spanish] The camera makes them look fat.
[Fidel] I don't like looking fat.
[Jon] Fidel thought he was a better cameraman than me.
Cristobal thought he was better than me.
It really hurt to film my friends suffering.
I came here young, idealistic, and I grew to love Cuba.
I never had a chance to say goodbye to the brothers.
I'd really like to see Fidel one more time.
We might be invited to see Fidel today,
-so we're waiting for the phone call. -[phone ringing]
Bye, everybody. See you later.
I might have to leave my video camera in the trunk of the car.
I just hope I get to pay my respects.
Gladys works in the house where we're staying.
[in Spanish] Wow, that photo is amazing.
[Jon] Fidel remembered me and was excited to see me.
He's still got a good cowboy handshake.
He still knows how to give the Yankees a good sock!
He looks pretty good for a 90-year-old man.
He looks pretty good.
One thing that Fidel is concerned about is nutrition.
When you get old, you focus on your health.
Fidel has a laboratory.
He's developing seeds that have a high nutritive value
to solve world hunger.
And Fidel signed my shirt.
I gave Fidel my good luck cap,
and this was my last present to Fidel.
And then...
I got a chance to say goodbye.
I don't know if I'll see Fidel again.
[in Spanish] On November 25, 2016,
at 10:29 p.m.,
Fidel Castro Ruz, our Commander-in-Chief, died.
He was hailed by supporters for his anti-US stance,
but condemned by human rights campaigners for his autocratic rule.
[reporter] Here in the US, Castro's passing
is igniting strong emotions and a fierce political debate.
Glowing tributes came from predictable quarters.
Vladimir Putin calling him "a symbol of an era."
[reporter in Mandarin] Chinese President Xi Jinping visited the Cuban embassy,
where he paid his respects.
[in Spanish] Marco, where are we going?
We're nearing the procession
that's carrying Fidel's ashes.
We're two to three hours behind.
Look at all the people paying their respects.
[Jon in English] I never thought that one day
I'd be following Fidel's remains across Cuba.
But Fidel told me,
"We all know we're gonna die. We just don't know what the date is."
[interpreter in English] Nobody dies before his time comes.
So I am calm.
I know I am going to die.
I just don't know when.
[in Spanish] Fidel's era is over.
It's up to kids like you to continue fighting for Cuba.
[in Spanish] Life is a mystery, a game of chance.
In the cemetery, it's a different dance.
Where good men and ladies lie.
Then I hear the guy's re-upped for five years.
[man 2] The label hated it.
[Kevin Nealon] This castle belongs to the Duke of Gloucester.
So I realize that was the guy who kept angrily staring at me the whole time.
-[laughs] -[man] Hey, Kevin. Hey, Lorne. -You ready for this? -Yeah, what's that?
Oh, oh! We're gonna do the thing. Okay. All right, you want to start it off?
-Talk to you, or talk to the lens? -[man] Either way.
So, Sandy Wexler...
[smacks lips] Where do I begin?
He may be the most unique guy I ever met.
If you were working in Los Angeles in the '90s, any time in there,
you'd run into Sandy Wexler at some point.
Sandy was one of those fringe Hollywood managers that you always sort of saw around.
You know, you'd see him at a wrap party, and he'd be laughing, stuffing his face.
You'd think, "No one even invited this guy."
Sandy said I could be the next Patrick Swayze. [scoffs]
Only thing he ever said to me that made sense.
Sandy was not a big shot. He was a... He was a tiny shot.
But anybody who met him, you never forgot him.
You know, you gotta remember there was no YouTube, there was no Vines.
And none of that... None of the social media platforms.
You really needed a guy like Sandy to be seen.
Not Sandy. Not Sandy, but a guy like Sandy.
Hey, Arsenio! Nice to see you again, kiddo.
Have I seen you before?
[laughs] Yeah, it's Sandy Wexler.
I met you at Bernie's beach house, with Doug and Danny.
You guys were playing hangman.
You were hysterical that night. No one could figure out the word "canoe."
I have no idea what you're talking about, man.
How you doing with your manager, kid? Are you still fighting?
I don't have a manager, man. Well, you do now. If you want one.
No, I'm good. I... I have an agent.
-Oh. -As a matter of fact, I have six agents. Got plenty of white people in my life.
-All right. -I'm good, dawg.
An agent is business. A manager is family.
He guides you. He advises you. He fights the good fights.
Makes the tough phone calls.
Truth is, I'm not happy unless... unless you're happy.
So what do you say, Arsenio? You wanna get happy together?
Continued success, Arsenio!
-[whooping] Okay? Oh! -[pager beeping]
I got a hit on the hip, and it's Sinbad.
I don't think any of those people were really beeping him.
'Cause he would just go, like, "Oh, jeez, Mackenzie Phillips."
The one thing about Sandy is,
-he just never stopped lying. -Always.
Managers get used to lying, but Sandy took it to an art form.
Where am I? I'm in Joel Silver's office right now, talking about you.
If you land on your feet-- Hey, buddy, how long are you gonna be?
Excuse me, I am talking to Lew Wasserman's neighbor right now.
That was Janet Maslin from the Times.
Sandy's personal life?
-I know nothing. I know nothing. -Did he have a personal life?
-He wasn't married. -Didn't date.
It was sad. Seemed like he didn't have any friends, right? He had no friends.
Any good?
[Sandy] No, no, no, no, no, no.
That's great.
[stammering] But he was the king of the fake laugh -and the applauding combo. Yeah. -Combo. Yeah.
-and the applauding combo. Yeah. -Combo. Yeah.
Next time he'll get his own ketchup.
You gotta go.
Is Mary Jo Slater the casting agent on this?
-No. I don't know. -Good job, guys.
I was in Nam. But, you know, I was there in 1984,
so it was... It was a different vibe.
And then all I hear in the back is...
-He would fake laugh at funny comics. -That melon.
It was like, "Why are you fake laughing? -It's Eddie Murphy. He's funny." -[Dana Carvey] Right!
When it came to eating with Sandy, he, um...
It was like a smorgasbord on his face.
I mean, he was on the Atkins diet, right? So he always had, like, chicken...
-Kielbasa. -T-bone steak.
-Brisket. -Beef jerky.
I never actually ate with Sandy, but I did hear it was kind of gross.
Can you close your mouth just a little bit?
What did I do?
He dressed like your grandfather,
he had the table manners of a horse, but he was a great manager.
He really cared about his clients.
He made them his family. He was with them all the time.
And, uh, I wasn't sure what he was doing for them, but you could feel the love.
I spoke to Chili's. I think I can get us the corner table there
and preorder the appetizers.
I don't give a shit about Chili's right now. I thought you wanted to go to Chili's.
-No, I never said that. -You said that. That's okay.
You're nervous. I can see that you're sweating.
-I'm scared, Sandy. -Yeah.
I gotta jump over ten trailers and land on a waterbed.
Why are you laughing?
Because you're funny. You make me laugh.
-Well, I'm not trying to be funny. -No, it's the way you said it.
The way I said... What are you... [sighs] Look at the size of this crowd.
You said they'd come, and they came.
Ladies and gentlemen of El Segundo Motor Home Court,
here to defy gravity,
please let's welcome Wild Gary Roberts!
-Rodgers! -Rodgers!
He said that. He said Rodgers. Yeah, 'cause I told him to!
He said it the first time.
I... I wish we could... 'Cause he did say it the first time.
-Stop talking. -All right. I will.
You get up there and you show these people who you are.
Gary Rodgers. It's Gary Rodgers. You said that, right?
The second time.
Yeah, but you knew it.
Okay, guys, let's do this.
What are you saying? I don't know what you're...
What are you pointing to? I can only go forward.
Oh, my God.
He's really gonna jump over all those trailers?
Sir, my client is the best daredevil trapeze artist in the world. Thank you very much.
[breathes heavily] Let's go.
Yeah!
-What? -[screeching]
-[Gary groans] -Oh, shit!
-Jesus Christ! -[laughing]
[straining] Sandy.
-He had this one guy, Ted Rafferty... -Oh, yeah.
...who was a, you know, puppet act. Not that good. Like, a middle act.
He believed in him. He thought he was the greatest.
He's like, "I'm gonna make him the next Mr. Buttons."
So, uh, Charlie, have you always been a puppet?
Well, I don't know. Have you always been a parade float?
[Ted] I'm just trying to get to know you better, that's all. [Charlie] Know me better? I'm sitting on your lap.
No, but seriously, what's it like being a puppet? Well, I come from a long line of puppets.
My father was a puppet. My father's father was a puppet.
Really? Was your father's father's father a puppet?
Wait for the punch line, buddy.
Somebody call JCPenney. One of the mannequins is on the loose.
Sir, have you ever had a date in your life?
Actually, I have. Your Anita Bryant poster doesn't count.
But honestly, sir, how long have you been dead for?
Where do you come up with this stuff? I wish you didn't.
That was hysterical. So you caught the whole show, then?
I saw every word of it. It was sensational.
I saw you come in late!
Nah. Nah, I was there the whole time.
Will you get a load of this bullcrap. I was. I was.
Hey, hey, hey, hey, now, guys, guys, please. All right. Sandy, I... I believe you.
Thank you, Ted.
And I was thinking, you'd do so well now with the beach theater crowd.
And you've got the once a month gig opening for Fred Travalena at the Trop.
I don't wanna lose that.
It might be time to move on to the next level.
Kicking the piss out of you? No. Television.
But... [scoffs]
I don't know the first thing about the TV business. That's why you got me.
-I know my way around the networks. -Liar!
Hey, I've had a relationship with CBS since 1965
when I was a PA on Gilligan's Island.
Now, look, kids love the puppets. And I know there's an audience for that.
Mmm, maybe.
Well, what about this?
I know it's out of left field, but how about a show for kids?
Yeah, I was just saying that.
So we agree.
My favorite thing about Sandy is where he lived.
The place was a palace.
[Henry] He lived on the biggest property in Bel Air. [actor] Yeah.
[Tony] Gorgeous pool.
[Jay] One of the finest collections of luxury cars I've ever seen.
Make sure you hydrate, Yoshi! It's a hot day!
[Tony] Of course, none of it belonged to Sandy.
It was owned by some Jewish Iranian...
The guy never even set foot in the United States.
...who needed Sandy there for legal reasons.
And he was not allowed in the main house.
He was in the cabana by the pool.
-[dog barking and growling] -No, no, no, no.
Oh, no! Oh, no, no! No, no, no!
Stay! Stay! Stay!
I've lived here for four years already. You should know me by now.
Get to see the face. The king of Hollywood.
Do you understand me? -[Amy] Sandy? -Ahh!
Oh. Hi, uh, Amy. Hi, Donna and Kendra.
-Lola. -Jesse.
Yeah, that's right. Wow, they're getting sharp.
What brings you all the way out here from Tarzana?
Well, you said you'd watch the kids while I go on the audition. Is that still okay?
Oh, don't be silly. Of course. We're gonna have a good time, guys.
I have to get it, Sandy. I'm working two jobs just to tread water out here.
You're the quintessential American mother. Oscar Mayer would be crazy to pass on you.
Oscar Mayer? I thought I was auditioning to play a hooker in a Wes Craven movie.
You know what? My doctor put me on a new thyroid medicine.
He said it might make me foggy, and I guess he was right.
-Okay, Sandy, I'm gonna go. -Yeah.
Girls, be nice to Mr. Wexler. Okay? Yes, Mommy.
-Oh, we're gonna have fun, guys. -Okay.
-Go get 'em, kid. Go get 'em. -Okay.
Oh, there's dogs out there. They--
Hey! Hi, guys. Hi, sweet girl. Hi.
So what are you shmegegges up for?
I have the original script of On Golden Pond.
Do you wanna read that out loud?
No?
What would you like to do?
Go swimming?
No, no, no. That could get me kicked out of here.
I thought you were the king of Hollywood? I never said that.
-You said it to the dogs. -Like a minute ago.
No, I didn't.
You guys like roller coasters?
-Unbelievable. -[girls screaming]
Rifkin left Triad and he's joining forces with Zifkin over at William Morris.
After I was promoted out of the mailroom at MCA, I was assigned to Frank Gorshin.
And Frank Gorshin used to have me hand-wash the Riddler costume,
because he felt washing machines might stretch out the material.
Hey, guys, this way. This way. Come with me.
♪ All through the wintertime ♪
♪ He hid himself away ♪
♪ Ashamed to show his face ♪
♪ Afraid of what others might say ♪
♪ All through the winter In his lonely clump of leaves ♪
-Hey, dude, I can't see. -What? Okay.
♪ And very soon agreed Indeed ♪
[actor on stage] Yes, a very fine swan indeed.
Take a look at yourself in the lake. You'll see.
♪ I'm not such an ugly duckling ♪
♪ No feathers all stubby and brown ♪
Pitch perfect.
♪ In so many words Say the best in town ♪
-♪ The best ♪ -[actors quacking] -♪ The best ♪ -[actors quacking]
♪ The best in town ♪
Very nice.
Excuse me. You were fantastic up there.
-Oh, thanks. You're sweet. -Yeah.
It's corny, but it's fun.
Corny? That had an edge to it. I'm Sandy Wexler.
Courtney. Nice to meet you.
I just... I couldn't keep my eyes off you up there.
Please don't hit on me in front of your kids. That's creepy.
-He's not our dad. -No, I'm not.
He's the king of Hollywood. She thinks I said that to the dogs, but I didn't.
Listen, can we talk somewhere? I'm a talent manager.
I kinda gotta go. We have a show every 12 minutes.
It'll take four minutes of your time. It'll be worth it.
...someone who advises you, someone who guides you,
who makes the tough phone calls, fights the big fights.
Atkins.
I mean, your voice,
it sounds like a... a bird and an angel had a baby.
And you just so happen to be beautiful.
You can't teach beautiful.
If you could, I'd be in class right now, believe me. [laughs]
I'm telling you, you could be somebody.
Come on. If I was gonna be anybody, I'd be her by now.
Everybody's gotta start somewhere.
Buddy Hackett was a dishwasher in the Catskills till he was 60.
Barbra Streisand started as a backup singer in a petting zoo.
Liza Minnelli used to sing in a coal mine.
Wasn't her mother Judy Garland? No, that's made up.
[stammers] The mightiest tornado starts with a small breeze.
You sound like a fortune cookie. I used to represent a guy who wrote fortune cookies.
[scoffs] Get out of here.
Yeah, he wrote for Happy Days and fortune cookies.
Let me ask you something.
Why do you do what you do?
I don't know.
The only time I really feel alive is when I'm singing.
Well, imagine if you were singing on stage in front of 50,000 people.
You think you'd feel alive then?
Up there singing like a bird and an angel had a baby?
You like the bird and angel thing, don't you?
I said that already?
-Can I ask you something? -Please do.
Can you get any of that food in your mouth?
So you're saying I should quit right now and leave with you?
You're too big for this duck pond. It's time to fly.
You like to make trouble, don't you, Sandy?
What do you say? Wanna team up?
I'll tell you what I told Josh Gelfand in the sixth grade
-when he asked me to the spring social. -Uh-huh.
I'd love to, but we gotta ask my dad first.
[Courtney] I guess I should have mentioned my Dad's in Seward, Alaska.
[Sandy] Oh, that's fine. I love it there.
It's beautiful.
-Oh, you've been? -No, I haven't been there.
-But you just said-- -No, I didn't.
[Courtney] I guess I should have also mentioned the prison thing.
[Sandy] Are you kidding?
-I was in prison my entire childhood. -[sighs]
An emotional prison. That's a life sentence, I'm telling you.
-The Yugo, imported from France. -[Courtney] Isn't it from Yugoslavia?
[Sandy] No. "You go" to France. "You go" and have a good time. Bonjour.
Hey, Poppy.
How you doing?
Oh, it's always a great day when I see my little girl.
Mr. Clarke, truly a pleasure. Sandy Wexler of Wexler Artists.
Is this the fool that want to manage you?
Um, yes, I did come up here to talk to you about that.
[stammering] And if you're available to speak, you know, and now's the time,
I would love to have a conversation about this.
If we could conversate, I'm here to--
What about Six Flags Magic Mountain?
I mean, she got benefits, a paycheck every week. That mountain is truly magical.
No, it is.
I just, with all due respect, I think your daughter has the magic.
With her talent, she could have a dream-come-true life.
You mean, better than all of this?
What?
Dad.
Who else have you managed?
You ever hear of Indiana Jones?
You work with Harrison Ford?
No, but I do represent the guy
who got his heart pulled out of his chest in Temple of Doom.
I love that guy.
Everybody does.
I don't know anything about show business, Sandy. How do I know if I can trust you?
Because I can look you dead in the eye and promise you this:
I will always do what's best for your daughter.
Well, okay. In that case...
♪ You got a new manager ♪
♪ Thank you, Daddy ♪
♪ What a wonderful moment ♪
The singing is just for us. Okay. Good. Will do... Will never do it again.
You guys want to go out and celebrate?
I can't go nowhere.
Oh, that's right. I'm sorry. Please don't shiv me.
Shiv you? Man, I ain't no inmate. I work here. I've got... got the night shift.
What the... What?
Got ya.
Very good.
Darling, you should take Sandy out for a dinner and a show, Alaskan style.
-[Sandy] That's amazing. -[Courtney] Right?
So good.
The northern lights and my new friend Sandy.
That's as good as it gets.
Northern lights are something else. I was actually talking about the burger, though.
-Is this bison, or is it moose meat? -[laughing] [stammers] What's making it so good?
It's a hamburger, crazy man.
-A hamburger? -And you're missing out without the bun. Now, the bun...
If I lose five more pounds, it's back to the buns. Oh, my God.
So you really think I could be somebody?
-You are going straight to the top. -Yeah?
Up there with all the other beautiful stars.
Show me which star I am. -You wanna know which star you are? -Yeah.
-You wanna know which star you are? -Yeah. Let's see.
You are that one right there.
[Courtney] Sandy, that's an airplane.
I know. I told you, you were going places.
-That's real smooth, Sandy. -Thank you.
You must be a real lady-killer.
Listen,
if we're gonna do business together, we gotta have boundaries.
I'm sorry, but I learned that the hard way.
A bad breakup?
His name was Alfred.
Oh, you're gay!
I can see that now.
No, I'm not gay as far as I know.
-Alfred was my first client. -Mmm-hmm.
More than that. He was... He was my best friend.
Did he die?
No, no.
He got famous, and he, uh... and he dumped me.
That dick!
He wasn't a dick. I was the dick. It was my fault.
I let the friendship get in the way of the business.
Now understand it's show business, not show friendship. Right?
That is so sad.
It's not sad. It's actually a good thing.
Because I got a stable of talent in Hollywood
that I, quite frankly, think is the best of the bunch.
And Eisner knows it, and Ovitch knows it.
I'm sorry, and I don't wanna toot my own horn
'cause that's not what I like to do, but toot-toot.
Best thing to me is I found you.
I'm glad you found me.
You're not as happy as I am. Trust me.
But we gotta get to work.
Whenever Sandy signed a new client,
he had a team of support people that immediately began making over the client.
He would just enroll everybody in classes for the stuff they didn't do.
Movement, martial arts...
A posture person, and then a hair person.
-And no one was better off after that. -No.
It was a train wreck.
I'm not a dancer, Sandy.
-It doesn't matter if you can't dance. -It's all right.
-Miss Gideon is gonna teach you to move. -I got you, sweetheart.
-It's about presence on stage. -All right. That's enough, Sandy.
-All right. Here we go. -It's about being comfortable.
-You know, Baryshnikov, I hear-- -Shut it, Sandy. I got her.
-["I'm Gonna Get You" playing] -Who me? Who me? Who me?
I'm a rock star. I'm a rock star.
And pass the mic. Pass the mic. Down the mic. Down the mic.
[Sandy] That's it. That's it.
-That's it. Now you're in it. -[Gideon] Bobby Brown.
More madness! Stomp the ant.
Seattle. Seattle.
-[Sandy] She doesn't know how to dance? -You're a diva!
-This girl can do it all. -Feel it. And stop!
Hammer time!
[Sandy] Wonderful.
[Yuri] Okay. Let's see it.
-[shutter clicks] -Very good.
Very bad.
Complete shit.
You know what? I don't like the ice cream. It's a bad idea. Looks terrible.
Now let's go sexy, huh? Can you give me some sexy, Courtney?
Come on. Let's put on some sexy music, Willow.
Okay. Yes. Let's shoop this shit. Shoop it up, huh?
Let's shoop the shoop. Show me the sexy. Come on.
Give me sexy. Honey, think of something sexy, huh?
-Like what? -Like moose burgers.
-[chuckles] -And there it is. Shoot that.
Ah, Sandy likes it. No one knows why. Put your hand on your chin.
Not like you're stroking a beard. Like you're thinking, thinking filthy thoughts.
Like wieners!
Ah, that's good, Willow! Wieners is good. You're brilliant today.
Ah, that's good, Willow! Wieners is good. You're brilliant today. Come on. Hand on chin, thinking of wieners.
I suck at this.
-No, you don't. You're great. -Oh, come on.
It... You just... It's easy.
Then you do it, Sandy. -Come on. Get over here. -No, no, no, no.
-You're a performer. I don't do that. -Come on, Sandy.
You said it's easy. Dream of the wieners, huh?
Come over here. Come on. Do I wear my glasses, or do I take them off? Or...
Nobody gives a shit. Come on.
-You put your hand on the chin. -Uh-huh.
You just... You think.
Huh? Just thinking. Little more thinking over here.
[Yuri] Yes, that's brilliant.
Beautiful. Thank you, Sandy. Clear out of frame.
-Get out. -No, I'm gonna miss him.
No, you'll be fine. Sexy will be right over here.
-Don't worry. -I'll be there.
He's still got his hand on his chin. He's so cute.
Ah, that's much better.
[Sandy] Yes, that's it.
[Yuri] Yes, now I see sexy.
The definition of, like, a given
is that kids wake up and they think, "Me so horny."
And then, you know, you don't need a song that just reinforces, they know they're so horny.
If it was, like, "Me So Introspective" or something like that.
Or "Me So Ambivalent" or...
Just so good. Talk about fearless. Best in town by far.
Isn't she?
She? Who's she?
What?
-Did you call him? -Yeah, I called him.
What'd he say?
-What'd who say? -The guy you called.
Who did I call?
The guy from the Young Comedians Special.
Oh, yeah. No, I gotta call him.
-So you didn't call him? -No, I called him.
No, you didn't. I thought you called him.
Sandy, you're making even less sense than usual. No, I'm not.
-Something's off. -Off how?
I don't know. Different.
Did you dye your hair or something?
I don't think so.
Maybe it's a brain tumor.
Maybe it is.
-Anyway, can we run lines? -Yeah, that's why I'm here.
I need to know the truth, you son of a bitch!
All right, I dyed my hair. Just the tips. You happy?
No, the line, Sandy.
I know. I was improvising.
But you want this line? Um...
"The truth? You wouldn't know the truth if it bit you on the--"
Bird.
We gotta find a way. Don't you think, Sandy?
Sandy?
A way? What way?
A way to get rid of the birds.
Yeah, a bird and a baby had an angel.
Are you stoned or something?
Stoned? I don't do pot. Come on.
Well, you seem stoned out of your mind. What's with the crazy smile?
I don't know, I'm just smiling at the fact you might become the new Captain Kangaroo.
He's lying again.
No, I'm not. I'm not lying.
I've been thinking about how you can work on your kid-friendly material.
Maybe go to Magic Mountain.
When you see all the children on line, just start doing jokes for 'em.
-See if it works. -That feels very child molestery.
He wants to ruin you. Fire him!
Fire me? If you're firing anybody, I'd fire him. He's useless. He does nothing.
I do everything! What do you do? Guys, guys, guys! Come on, we're on the same team here.
-That's what I'm trying to tell him. -Yes.
Teammates?
Yeah, thank you.
-You took my arm! You took my arm! -Oh, come off it. That's--
-You took my arm! -That's not...
[Ed McMahon on TV] Thank you, Martin.
Let's find out who the judges chose as returning champ tonight.
The judges gave Kevin Connors one star
and the champion, Martin Lawrence, four stars!
The new champion, Martin Lawrence.
-[phone ringing] -Oh... Come on.
Wexler Artists.
-[Kevin] It's me. -Hi, Kevin.
Did you know that was on?
No. I didn't know they were gonna repeat it.
-I never want to see that again! -Well...
I can't stop them, Kevin, legally, 'cause we signed an agreement.
It's... They own the material.
Well, she'd light up a room in that purple one.
[man] Sandy!
[chuckles] Barry Bubatzi.
Barry.
[stammering] Yeah, I was Carr D'Angelo's assistant?
-Hiccups? That's you? -Yeah.
-Look at this. Hiccups. -[laughs] Yeah.
Bubatzi!
He... he called me Hiccups because I had the hiccups this one time I was on the phone with him.
Well, listen, he didn't just have the hiccups, -he had the hiccups. -[both chuckle]
-He wouldn't stop hiccupping. -Yeah.
Uh, you can die from hiccups. I was terrified.
I was actually concerned.
-[both laugh] -It was nerve-racking. A little bit.
How's your sister? Did she get into Penn State?
-She just graduated. -Another successful Bubatzi.
-You see, that is why I love this guy. -What?
[stammers] He actually talked to me when I was just an assistant.
You treated me with respect, Sandy.
-Not many people did. -Well, of course.
-This is my girl, Mary. -Hi.
Mary. Sandy Wexler.
-Nice to meet you. -Nice to meet you.
Are you... What happened to your arm?
-Yeah, I got myself a tattoo. -What'd you get?
Uh... it is that of a dog bite.
So how's Carr D'Angelo?
Well, he, uh... he left. He's working for Blockbuster Video now.
Smart move. The music business has its ups and downs,
but Blockbuster Video's here for the long haul.
And you, what are you up to?
I left, too. -I'm at Capitol Records now. -Oh.
He's head of A&R.
You know how happy that makes me?
Hiccups Bubatzi goes big time.
That's just... That's the way it should be.
You worked your ass off, kiddo.
Can I talk business for a second? Is that all right? I have a client that, actually, you would love to meet--
-Tell you what... -What?
Call my office next week. Yeah.
I mean, you sure? 'Cause I will call.
-[laughs] I know. -[laughs]
-It was great seeing you, pal. -It was great seeing you.
And I hope, uh, one of those dresses works out for you.
-Oh, no, this isn't... -[Mary] Cute.
-[laughing] It was... I mean... -So good.
It's a Bubatzi world. We're all just--
Could you please not block the whole aisle?
We're all just living in it. I wasn't blocking the aisle.
-Hi. -Hey, neighbor.
Hi, Cindy!
Where's that billionaire landlord of yours? Is he ever going to grace us with his presence?
[laughs] What a question.
Listen, he's supposed to come out for Rosh Hashanah,
but he said last year Purim, so who knows? -[laughs] -But anyways, how are you?
-[laughs] -But anyways, how are you? How is your husband?
Doctors say it could be any day now. Hmm.
Oh, I'm so sorry. It's just...
How are you doing? No one ever asks how you're doing.
How you feeling?
The truth is that I'm just... a little bit lonely.
You were together so long. Of course you're lonely.
So if you ever see my tennis court lights on at night...
that means that I could use some company.
-It was great to see you, Cindy. -Bye, Sandy.
Okay, we're gonna go. All right. Good night, now.
Good night.
Look, Gary Rodgers can't make that jump
unless you clear every bird from the sky, Tom.
I don't know. Is there a spray for it? Like, a... a roach spray or...
There's dogs. There's dogs.
A roach spray for birds.
Tom, I'm sorry. That's not my job. That's your job.
That's why I'm telling you.
I'm telling ya!
Listen, don't do that to me! I'll pull the plug on this thing!
Do you hear me?
All right. I'm sorry I got hot there, Tom, but you weren't listening.
Okay, here's a stock tip for you to make up for that.
Pull all your money out of Apple, 'cause no one's using the Macintosh anymore.
Put 80% into small local bookstores, the other 20% into Woolworth's.
-Righto. -[hangs up]
-Look at you, Mr. Manager Man. -You don't wanna yell at people,
-Look at you, Mr. Manager Man. -You don't wanna yell at people, but sometimes it's the only way they can hear.
You look stunning.
Well, this yard is the most amazing yard I've ever seen, and that pool--
The pool's off-limits. House rules. So, Yuri stopped by my office.
Yeah, I know. He's right there.
You see him? Let's go over.
[Yuri] We need to find the one that expresses the right message. You know, "I'm fun. I'm complicated. I'm sexy."
You know, "I'm fun. I'm complicated. I'm sexy."
I'm confused. I'm crazy. I'm embarrassed.
You're beautiful is what you are. Stop that.
-[pager beeping] -Got a hit on the hip.
This is someone I actually have to call.
Okay, I'll be back in a few seconds.
Okay, cool, we'll be in the pool.
-You stay out of the pool. -[chuckles]
I was just kidding.
I know, and it was hysterical. But seriously, stay out of the pool.
No, not you, Barry. Hi!
-I don't know how you do it. -Do what?
Deal with all the crazy Sandy shit.
-Man, he's such a-- -Boner face?
-I love that. -He's not a boner face.
-He's a badass. -Okay.
Well, listen, this girl is one of the best singers you'll ever see,
and the best, brightest person ever.
I'm gonna go with the one on the top right corner.
And can you blow up... that one?
Oh, my God.
What? It's a good picture.
Sandy already asked me to do that for him.
I have some interesting news.
Capitol Records wants to meet with you next week.
They want to hear your demo.
I don't have a demo.
That's why you have me.
♪ You make it feel like home ♪
♪ You give me butterflies, butterflies Down to my soul ♪
♪ Butterfly, butterfly You don't even know ♪
♪ It's you who I speak of And you who I dream of ♪
♪ And nights when I'm all alone ♪
♪ You make it feel like home ♪
Courtney, one take. Perfection.
[muffled] You nailed it. That was...
Thank you so much.
[muffled] I'm gonna play this back in here.
I can't get over what I just heard. Wow.
My God.
Play it back. I... I don't even know what to say right now.
There's a chance I forgot to hit record.
What do you mean there's a chance you forgot? -I... I was gonna hit record... -Uh-huh.
Uh, then I forgot.
So it's more than a chance. -You... you did forget? -Yes.
Okay, so what do we do now?
Is it another deck you have? Is it in the board?
No.
-So we'll have to do it again. -Okay.
Okay? It's okay with you?
If it's okay with you to do it again.
-That's where we are right now, huh? -Okay.
Let's just go again.
Courtney, there was an issue on the subwoofer.
It was a bit tinny.
We adjusted that, and we're ready for you this time.
I'm sorry. On us, not you. Just one more time.
We're gonna keep our eyes on the road. Okay?
You got it.
Please promise me it's as good as your first one. [chuckles] I'm... Ha!
You know... You know you can do that. Okay. All right.
Go get 'em, kiddo.
♪ Once in a while You find someone ♪
♪ I dream of At nights when I'm all alone ♪
♪ You make it feel like home ♪
I am so happy we had another take, because that just killed me.
It was so on the money.
You were hitting notes I didn't know were invented yet.
Thank you from the bottom of my heart. I'm gonna take a listen.
[muffled] God damn it!
I should have known you would never press the button.
You didn't remember to put the button on your goddamn overalls!
Is everything okay out there?
Yes, kiddo, we are doing just fine. Um...
We need to go one last time. There was a glitch.
There was a tremolo-treble-bass hiccup that we have rectified,
and we're ready for ya.
Take three it is. Three time's the charm. Ha!
-Okay, kiddo, let's hit 'em. -Okay.
It's not rolling. It's not rolling.
[muffled] Press the button!
Push it! It's spinning, right?!
♪ Butterflies, butterflies Down to my soul ♪
♪ Butterfly, butterfly You don't even know ♪
I mean, it's... it's like a bird and an angel and a saxophone
-made love and had a baby. -Oh, wow.
I'm also hearing a triangle just between all the choruses.
How can you hear a shape?
The instrument!
Just...
♪ Butterflies ♪
♪ Butterflies ♪
And then it would be perfect.
Really? A triangle? You don't think that will sound corny?
Way in the back. Just barely audible.
♪ You make it feel like home ♪
These guys get... [continues indistinctly]
Sandy, um, my dad wanted to make sure that I said hi to you.
-Your father, Marty? -Yeah.
Say hi for me. He's a good man. A smart man.
Um, he felt bad that you didn't get into Hillcrest Country Club this year.
Oh, listen, that's not his fault. I was... That was fine. There's other clubs.
No, actually I think that his was the deciding vote.
No. It's a capacity thing. It's not his fault. It's...
Let's do the meeting.
-All right. We're glad you're here. -Okay. Good.
So anyway, now that we got the formalities out of the way...
Everybody got their Fruitopia? Good, good, good.
So, spoke to Barry.
And, uh, Barry wanted us to listen to your demo, and I gotta say, some good stuff there.
Thank you.
Just to... I mean, to me, no one's doing what this kid is doing out there.
It's... it's not Mariah. It's not Whitney. It's--
Well, listen, if she got the album sales of Whitney, we'll take it.
-[execs chuckling] -Oh. Well, no, in terms of sound and commerciability, absolutely.
It's definitely Whitney. It's a Whitney, 100%.
-Yeah, it has potential. -Well, hold on now. The production quality is complete shit.
Complete shit. Terrible.
But the song has potential. Yeah, no diggity, no doubt.
-Thank you. -That's it.
The song is all we're worried about. You gotta lose the corny triangle, though, man.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, consider that gone.
Let me ask you something, man. Whose insane idea was that, anyway?
Whose idea was it? Was it your idea? No, it was that... It was the engineer's.
I gotta be honest. It was absolutely ridiculous.
I mean, how big of an asshole do you have to be to say,
"You know what? Let's put a... [imitates triangle chiming] ...at the end of a ballad"?
So, ready to check out our digs?
This is Studio A.
Les Paul helped engineer it, and Sinatra made it infamous.
I'm telling you, this studio is all that...
and a bag of chips. [laughs]
Yes.
See this star here?
This star marks the spot with the best acoustics on the...
[laughs] Sandy?
-How many of these things are there? -We got a lot.
-Can we talk about this star for a second? -Yeah, go ahead.
It's got the best acoustics on the entire planet.
-You good, Sandy? -Comfortable.
-Could I? -Right there.
[Bling] What the hell? Why the lights out?
[Sandy] Electric bill? Did you guys pay it this month?
[exec] No, he's leaning on the light switch.
[Sandy] No, I'm not.
-[Bling] Can you step aside, Sandy? -Sure.
What? That wasn't me. Wasn't me.
-[Courtney sighs] -Let's try this again.
From the top.
[Bling] Sandy, step away from the light switch.
[Sandy] I did it on purpose that time. A joke.
I can't make jokes, guys? Come on.
Come on. If we're gonna do business, we gotta realize it's fun, too.
Ha. Ha-ha. Ha-ha-ha. Ha-ha-ha-ha-ha. Sandy.
Ha-ha-ha-ha. Sandy.
♪ Last night I had a dream ♪
♪ When I was 17 ♪
♪ I was in love with you ♪
♪ And you were so in love with me ♪
-Yo, man, this girl can sing. -I told you.
♪ You got down on bended knee Said you wanna marry me ♪
♪ You got down on bended knee Said you wanna marry me ♪ ♪ Or was that just a fantasy ♪
♪ Or was that just a fantasy ♪
♪ All I know is what I know ♪ ♪ And when I wanna be Is living in a dream ♪
♪ And when I wanna be Is living in a dream ♪
♪ We still fall in love Forever ♪
She got anyone? 'Cause I think she's my type.
What are you doing here? Why are we worried about her marital status?
Shouldn't you be preparing your rap, Mase? We're gonna get to it.
-Old man, we're gonna get to all of it. -[laughs]
"Old man"? I ain't that old.
♪ Last night I had a dream That you were here with me ♪
♪ And we were in a tree ♪
♪ K-I-S-S-I-N-G ♪
♪ I love him I need him so ♪
[Mase] Come on. Come on. Come on.
♪ I'll kiss you on your neck, yes ♪
♪ Then you can say you had the best, yes ♪
♪ As I give you the game Eyes of champagne ♪
♪ Blowin' on the jet Call it hydroplane ♪
He doesn't have his own microphone? No, no, check it out.
♪ Mr. DJ ♪
♪ Take me to a time when he Was still in love with me ♪
♪ Mr. DJ ♪
♪ Please send me a dream ♪
♪ Put my finger in a ring And gave his... ♪
Every song is incredible. That album is gonna be massive.
So Babyface produced it? Like the Babyface?
Like, the guy with the face of a baby? He has a very childlike face, it's true.
It's so good for women, so strong.
It's like Emmylou Harris, if she was raised in Neil Young's tour van
and doing blow with Iggy Pop and Etta James in a Mississippi bayou.
Wow. Thanks, I think?
She doesn't understand how good that is?
No, I do. I'm just grateful you all actually just listened to it.
That's what we do. It's our ritual.
Whenever anybody at Wexler Artists completes a project,
-we gather together. -We do?
We didn't even know you had other clients until today.
Oh, you guys all knew about each other.
I knew you had other clients, but you told me I was in a different league from them.
-That's what the prick told us, too. -[laughs]
Sorry, we've never done the ritual before.
If it's a first time, Sandy, how can it be a ritual?
Okay, and who is that guy?
Can we put him in a drawer or something? That's horrifying.
Sandy, aren't you forgetting the best part of the ritual?
-What's that, dear? -Jumping in the pool.
-Yeah! Let's do it! -Oh, no, no, no, no! No, that's not part of the ritual!
No, no, no, wait! We are not permitted in the pool! Okay?
-Firuz forbids it. -You're not in a cult, are you, Sandy?
No, Firuz is my landlord.
He does not allow us in the pool. It is forbidden.
No, no. All right! Ah! Don't you come any closer, Sandy. I'll put my whole foot in, I swear.
Ah! Don't you come any closer, Sandy. I'll put my whole foot in, I swear.
-No, no! -[stammering]
-Please don't... No! -Ooh!
No, I am not kidding you, Courtney. I will let you go as a client.
-I didn't wanna have to say that. -[Ted] Oh, my God.
Do not put your foot in the pool, or the career is done.
And I'm not... I'm not messing with you. -Oh, God. -I don't care what you're saying.
Okay, you did it! You did it! You did the foot. You did the foot. The foot is wet.
Please come back in the house. I'm asking nicely.
I just don't have... I can't...
I wasn't gonna go in.
I know you weren't gonna go in.
I... I can't joke, too?
-Really? "I know you won't." -I can't joke, too.
Whoo! Cannonball!
Maybe tomorrow. Maybe tomorrow, okay? Maybe I'll wear you tomorrow.
And... and it's not you guys. You're doing great. I love you guys. I love you guys, all right?
Good night. Good night, everybody. Good night.
[Courtney on recording] ♪ Once in a while You find someone ♪
♪ Right from the start Your heart is done ♪
♪ Feels something like... ♪
-[Firuz] Sandy? -Who's that?
Don't "who's that" me, man.
Why do you screw Firuz?
-Firuz? -Yes.
I don't see you. Show your face!
I'm in Tehran, you imbecile.
I tell you to stay out of my pool, and what do you do? You go in my pool.
Uh, nobody went in your pool. No, no, who told you that? The dogs?
I have cameras everywhere, man. I'm watching you all the time.
You're much better than anything we have on Iranian TV.
I see you with bacon over the sink,
I see you fall asleep in my chair, watching my Cinemax.
And I see your godless friends in my pool!
No, no, listen, Firuz. Here's what happened.
There was an earthquake in Los Angeles.
So we just went in the pool 'cause it's the safest place to be.
But we didn't go all the way in. No water was touched.
Sandy, you lie all the time, man. It's embarrassing.
I wish I was lying. I wish I was.
And how many times are you going to listen to that one song, my friend?
I mean, mix in a little Miami Sound Machine or something.
It's a client of mine. Courtney Clarke. What, you don't like it?
The song is good, and I like her, too.
You know, when she was in bathroom, I got quite a good look at her.
-You what? -Firuz joking. [chuckles]
I don't have cameras in bathroom anymore.
I had them taken out when you had the big hemorrhoid.
That wasn't a hemorrhoid, that was a fissure.
But, Sandy, people in my pool, this I do not like!
-I-- -That's strike one, Sandy!
I'm telling you--
-You don't want to get strike two. -I... I agree.
-Goodbye from Firuz. -[static]
Bye-bye.
You know, I did tell them not to go in the pool, and they did it anyway.
-So you admit it? -No! I--
Strike two! Firuz knows everything.
[Sandy] Okay, what are we doing today, big guy?
We going to Jerry's? Or you want to go to Carney's?
I can go either one.
It's all good for the Atkins. I can get a frankfurter, no bun.
-I know. -I can get a plate of roast beef...
-or corn beef-- -Don't go over the whole menu. I don't give a shit about your roast beef.
Stu Smiley passed on me for the Young Comedians Special.
-That's right. He... -I don't even believe it.
-He's a moron. -He's not a moron.
He's a pompous know-it-all, smarmy little Ivy League pussy.
-He went to San Diego State... actually. -You're kidding me right now, right?
-He went to San Diego State... actually. -You're kidding me right now, right? You corrected me 'cause he went to San Diego State?
No, I'm agreeing with you.
I'm saying you are too smart and too topical to be on HBO.
They like young and stupid. -They like cute and moronic. -Yes.
-Nothing challenging, nothing unfamiliar. -No.
-They want some, like, ex-Florida DJ... -Ha! ...who's blandly handsome,
and his little gimmicks, his voice cracks on the punch line or he's...
Pretends to be tripping on acid the whole set.
Chinese food?
I don't want Chinese food for lunch.
All right, beef and broccoli.
This conversation goes a lot better when it's just me talking.
-I'm not in the conversation? -Oh, you are, but you aren't.
You can let... Blast off on me. Go ahead. Yell at me as much as you want.
As long as you promise to bring it on the stage with you tonight,
-and you show HBO... -I promise. ...they don't need to discover you.
Kevin Connors will discover himself. Thank you very much.
What does that even mean? How do I discover myself?
Do you know how dumb that sounds?
That's one of the... Don't click. Why're you clicking? Stop clicking!
You always click whenever you get nervous. It's psychotic.
-Your technique... -["Mr. DJ" playing on radio]
What is that?
It's, uh... That's Courtney's song.
That's... Ask her what station it is.
What station is it?
Excuse me, miss? Oh, wow. Hi.
Oh, my God, I know you.
-She knows me. -Hey. Yeah.
Didn't you get one star on Star Search the other day?
-No. -[stammers]
This... What station are you listening to? The number?
-What? -The station you're listening to?
You need to enunciate. I can't understand what you are saying.
No, no, what is the dial number? What are you tripping about, bro?
I'm asking you what station you're listening to!
Don't you... What are you...
Good job. You scared her off.
-Oh, come on here. -[radio stations changing]
[man on radio] It's your Uncle Joe Benson...
-There it is. There it is! -["Mr. DJ" playing]
This is Courtney's song.
What are you shocked by? She's a great singer. Oh, my God.
♪ And we were in a tree K-I-S-S-I-N-G ♪
What the hell, Sandy?
You can take care of this, right? My Nautilus place is right here. I'm gonna go do a circuit.
How about this song? Huh, guys?
I got Integrity No-Fault Insurance. How about you?
The song... This song--
[Sandy] Hey, hey.
You look like a star.
Thank you!
You look like Mike Tyson knocked you out.
What happened?
Oh, I ran into a moose on Melrose.
[stammers] Yeah, it must have escaped off the Paramount lot.
This dress on you... [stammers] I just love it.
[chuckles] Of course you do. It's from your dirty magazine page, ya weirdo.
-Well, it works! -[chuckles]
What are we doing tonight to celebrate? You were on the radio!
Hmm. Well, Bling just called, and Quincy Jones invited me to his party tonight.
-Jonesy? Jonesy's having a party? -Okay. Uh-huh.
I heard he was gonna have a... -I just didn't know when. -Oh.
So what? Did you get a plus-one or...
Yes, plus-one.
-And I'm the one? -[chuckles] Yeah.
You know, I met his grandmother years ago at a Hamburger Hamlet.
She calls him Quincelius.
So every time I see him, I say, "Hi, Quincelius." He gives me a look like, "How did he know?"
Okay, cool. So should we go to the party?
You wanna go to it? Why shouldn't... Let's pop by. He lives in Venice, right?
Uh... no, the address is in Bel Air.
Oh, so he moved? Okay, okay, he moved.
Sandy Wexler. Wow.
They let you in this party?
Hey, Bronstein.
You heard you didn't get into Hillcrest Country Club, right? Yeah, I heard.
[sighs] This place is incredible!
Yeah, it's nice. It's nice.
His one in Venice wasn't trying as hard.
Quincy never lived in Venice. What you talking about, Willis?
What? No, she said he did.
-What? -She? Oh!
I'm a huge fan. I'm Arsenio.
I know, Arsenio. Courtney.
Hey, Arsenio. Good to see you. I'm Sandy Wexler, her manager.
You remember? We met at, uh... at Bernie's beach house.
Your manager look like he fell down an elevator shaft. What's up?
No, no, no. I, uh... Fender bender. You should see the other guy.
-Oh, he got hurt? -Who did?
-The other guy? -What? No.
You know what? I heard your new song, "Mr. DJ." I love it. It's off the chain. You've gotta come on the show and do it.
-I would love to. -Oh, well, listen.
I got a call from Johnny Carson today, actually.
He heard the song as well on the radio, and he booked her on the show next week.
Carson?
Well, congratulations.
You ever need me, Stage 29. I'll be there forever, baby.
Ah, thanks, Arsenio. No, I didn't mean any problem--
You didn't tell me I was doing Carson next week!
That was a negotiation ploy. I may have overplayed my hand there.
Carson retired two years ago.
Sandy Wexler? Somebody hide the pastrami.
Hey, thank you. Good to see you, too.
Wow. Look at all these awards he has. You'll have more one day.
-Me? -Yes, you.
You promise me this.
-After you win your first Grammy... -Uh-huh.
...you go home that night, you put your ugly duckling hat on--
I am not putting that hat on.
...to remind yourself where you come from.
-You put it on. I'm not putting it on. -You don't wanna see me in that--
Sandy, Sandy, Sandy.
Well, who whooped your ass and got away with it?
No, this was a high-impact Tae Bo class I took. It's fine.
Okay.
How about our girl here getting the radio play, huh?
Did I tell you she's a superstar or what?
Oh, yeah, she's getting some heat.
-Yeah, we'll see where it goes. -Thanks, Bling.
Excuse me. Excuse me, Shortie Doo-Wop, can I get two Zimas and for Sandy...
I'll take a diet ginger ale.
-Amy Baskin. -Sandy, what are you doing here?
I was invited. Thank you very much. Hi.
Bling, I want you to meet Amy Baskin. To me, she is the next Grace Kelly.
-I'm trying. -Amy? Courtney.
-I'm trying. -Amy? Courtney. Remember me from the ritual pool party?
Oh, my God. I heard your song on the radio twice today.
-Congratulations, Courtney. -Oh, well, we got a great manager.
He told me to always sing from the heart.
And I tell this girl, "Always act from the heart."
Hey, did we get the offer on the Mentos commercial I was on hold for?
No, you weren't on hold for it. What I said was,
"I called them and they put me on hold for about 45 minutes."
But when they... they got on the phone, they told me they passed on you.
-Well, there you go. -No, it's good.
They said she had a great reading. That it truly looked like she loved the Mentos.
I'll be back with your drinks. -[Sandy] Okay. -Okay.
Yo, check it out. It's OJ Simpson, Phil Spector and Robert Blake.
Good guys. Call 'em the dream team. [laughs] -I'm gonna go chop it up with 'em. -All right.
The juice is on the loose! What's happening, killer?
So, uh, what do you think? We've been to the party. We had fun.
-Time to go? -I wanna see Jonesy.
-Who's Jonesy? -Quincy?
-Oh, Quincy? You wanna see, uh... -Yeah. ...Quincelius?
All right. Let's get that done.
-You think he's around? -Yeah, it'll be good to see him again.
Uh, yeah, let's find him.
Okay, now, Courtney, it's Domaines Ott Bandol Rosé. -My favorite. -[Courtney] Mmm.
What do you think?
Mmm! This is so good, Mr. Jones.
What do you think, Sandy? You like it?
What's the matter, man?
Nothing. No, I think it's good.
It's... it's... It's just grapey.
-What do you mean "grapey"? -Oh, I... I didn't say it was a bad thing.
Okay. I'm gonna try to respect your opinion, brother.
Let me try another one. I've got a '61 Château Pétrus downstairs.
Let me try another one. I've got a '61 Château Pétrus downstairs. Okay.
I paid eight grand for it at the Côte de Nuits.
-Yeah, okay. -That's too much. No.
Pretty sure this'll get your attention.
Thank you, Quincelius. Who the hell is Quincelius?
Nobody. Come on. What are we doing here?
Thank you.
It was grapey. It was a little grapey.
-I think you offended him. -No, I didn't.
I thought it was cool.
When he comes back, I dare you to say you hate that one, too.
-What? -[chuckles] The man spent $8,000 on the wine. He'll kill me.
Oh, we'll laugh our asses off. Come on.
-Courtney, what do you got me doing here? -I was saving this for a special occasion.
I think this is special enough.
You'll have to let me know what you think, baby.
Yeah. Thank you.
Very much.
What do you think, honey?
Mr. Jones, this is exquisite.
And, Sanford, you likey?
-Honestly? -What else, man?
-It's a little nutty. -Nutty?
For my taste.
Maybe if you put an ice cube in it...
-[woman gasps] Oh, my goodness. -Get out of my house!
-Now! -Hey, hey, I didn't mean to--
-Now! Out! Out! -[stammers] I'm gonna leave.
-No, I just got to get my jacket. -Out! Get... get out of here.
-[stammers] Listen. -Out!
Man, one of these is mine. Is this navy or black?
I'm having a hard time seeing. My glasses are blurry from the wine toss.
[Jones] Get out!
You know what? This is probably it. I... I'm gonna go.
-Leave! -Courtney! Okay.
Hey. Thank you, Q-bert. It was a great night.
-[laughs] Did you see the way that was-- -You made me do that! You!
-How are we getting out? -Are you happy?
I don't know where... Go. Just go. Is he coming?
Courtney's first single was huge. I remember the album was even bigger.
I heard every song on every station of every radio.
Yay, Courtney!
Courtney blew up to Whitney Houston-type status.
Oh, really?
-So it was crazy. -Mariah Carey, you know...
You're nobody, and then you're somebody, and everyone's clamoring after you.
And it's scary. It can be scary.
-[Courtney] Sandy... -Courtney, what's wrong?
I think someone's outside my house.
I'm scared it's one of those freaks that's been calling me or something.
What? Who's calling you?
I don't know.
I've been dealing with this ever since I moved into this place.
-Are your doors locked? -Yeah.
You stay inside. I'll be right there.
You're in trouble now, tough guy!
Look what I've been carrying around in my backseat...
ever since I was attacked on Ventura Place.
Huh? You like this?
You wanna... You wanna feel it?
Come out! Where are you?
-Courtney, stay in the house! -[twig snaps]
What's that?
What? You think you can hide?
Are you scared? Huh?
'Cause I'm scared, too.
I'm scared I'm gonna shatter every bone in your face!
You're gone?
That's it. Truce.
No more.
What you were so afraid of was nothing but a raccoon. [laughs]
[scoffs] No way.
I'm telling you, you'll never have to worry about him again, though.
You didn't kill him, did you?
No. No. Uh, I...
I seen him go out into the forest again to see his family, so...
All right? But I screamed at him.
I let him know, "Don't come back here. You stay with the...
On your side of the fence."
Okay. Come on in. Let me wash those clothes.
When I used to represent Hooch from Turner & Hooch,
I got a similar call about a late-night trespasser.
Turned out it was Benji's trainer.
Uh, he was jealous that Hooch was now the hottest dog in the business.
-You're making that up. -No, no, no, I think that's true.
You're insane, Sandy. Take off those pants.
What? What, right here?
I won't look.
Well, you'll be missing out, then.
Oh, really?
No. Maybe you should turn around.
[chuckles] Turning around.
I'm glad you took this place, by the way.
The real estate lady told me that David Crosby died three times in this house.
I'm gonna keep the beeper, if that's all right.
Kevin Connors did a show on Brea tonight,
co-headlining with AJ Jamal. I wanna make sure that went well.
So, pants are coming down.
Here you go.
All right. Come on. Let's get these washed.
Sure. Hey, thanks for doing that.
You called Bling, too?
Oh, I was here anyway, Sandy.
With my pants on.
The important thing is that Courtney feels safe.
-That's all I'm worried about. -[Courtney] Hmm.
An unlisted phone number.
That's the way to go for an artist of your stature. I can get that done for you tomorrow morning.
Oh, no, it's all... It's all good, Sandy. I handled it already.
Oh, you did? Good. Good. Good for you.
Sandy, can you pass me the gravy?
Can I pass you the gravy? Absolutely. I can pass you the gravy.
-Here. You want me to put it on for you? -I got it.
-You got it? -Yeah.
I was thinking we should get back in the studio, Courtney.
Maybe noodle around with some new tunes.
[chuckles] With all due respect, Sandy, I understand that, but, uh, her existing record's gonna be on the charts for months.
but, uh, her existing record's gonna be on the charts for months.
You don't want her competing against herself now, do you?
Who else do you want her competing with? I mean it's a win-win. To me.
I know what you mean, Sandy.
I have lots of ideas, but I can't tomorrow.
We've got publicist meetings.
-Publicists? What... what publicists? -Oh, yeah, just the top ones.
You know what? I'll send you the list, actually. You know what? Better yet, I'll e-mail you the list.
-What is that? -Oh, you're not familiar with e-mail?
E-mail? Of course I heard of that. Which one are you talking about?
You got your computer, right? And you plug that into your phone line...
...and you could send a document to another computer clear across the country
in a matter of minutes.
Who licks the envelope? R2-D2? I'm lost right now.
Now I think we're making a wrong move here.
I have a publicity campaign designed strictly for this woman right here.
You have a publicity campaign? Well, I mean, we're... The family's all here.
We would love to hear about it. What is it?
Well, I usually like my clients to start slow.
Keep it simple. Don't overexpose.
-Really, Sandy? [laughs] -Yes. Just gonna spit your chicken on my face? That's for you.
Okay. Maybe we'll hold off on the publicist thing.
Thank you.
But then we'll bring in one soon. -Okay, boys? -We'll talk about that.
Absolutely. I think that's smart.
All right. I'm gonna go check on these jeans.
-Okay? -Yes, my queen.
Your queen?
Sandy, you are the reason she needs a publicist.
I'm the reason?
You know how many calls I got after Quincy Jones threw you out of his party?
-Oh... She dared me to do it. -What are you, 14, Sandy?
No, I'm not 14. I'm not 14 at all.
Your job is to protect her. I protect her 24/7!
And how is that? By screwing up her shot on Arsenio?
We got the show, didn't we? Because I fixed it!
You fixed it. You did everything. You invented music.
What did you do, Sandy?
Did you file the paperwork for the Grammy nomination before the deadline?
Did you squash the story in the Enquirer
about her corrections officer father falling asleep during a prison riot?
Did you send envelopes of cash to the radio stations so they could play her record?
No, you didn't do that.
You know how I know you didn't do it, Sandy? Because I did it. I did all those things.
And what did you do? Hmm?
You made sure Gary, the daredevil trapeze artist,
was her opening act at the Universal Amphitheatre.
Gary is family.
This dude shattered his pelvis on an amplifier!
I was there. I saw.
There was blood all over the first three rows! -People were vomiting! -Yeah, all right.
That doesn't really segue well into soulful singer-songwriter now, does it, Sandy?
She got 'em back. She's too good to lose a crowd.
She's too good for you.
Sandy, she could have any manager she wants. She wants me!
And that is what's holding her back.
Look, Sandy, you did your job.
[imitating Sandy] You brought her up to the big leagues.
I'm telling you. Come on!
But now you're just... You're out of your depth.
Don't let your ego get in the way.
Can you look me in the eye and tell me you're doing what's best for her?
-[Courtney] Okay. -Ah!
Pants-Off Dance-Off is officially canceled.
-Put these bad boys on. -Okay.
You got the stain out? Very nice. Look at you. Look at you.
Well, I'm beat to shit. I'm gonna call it.
You're gonna call it? All right. I'll walk you out, then.
Thank you for everything. Appreciate it all.
Oh. Oh, yeah. Good night.
Thanks for scaring the stalker raccoon.
You don't have to thank me, Courtney. That's my pleasure.
Look, Sandy...
This rock star thing is new to me. I'm doing the best I can to make everybody happy, you know.
You make the world happy, Courtney. That's all you need to worry about.
Thank you, Sandy.
That's why it's difficult for me to tell you this.
But where you are right now in your career,
and what it requires of my time, it's...
I'm being kind of forced here to make sacrifices that,
with good conscience, I don't really wanna make.
Like what?
Like my stable of talent.
I can't give them what I believe each and every one of them deserves
if I'm worried about all the complexities of your day-to-day.
It's a lot, kid. I'm sorry.
So what? You don't want to work together anymore?
Well, it's just the current situation isn't fair to you, either.
I can't commit to you 100% if I got other things on my mind,
which unfortunately I do. The stable.
Sandy, let's not do this right now.
Let's take a minute and think it over.
I don't need a minute.
I promised your dad I'd always do what's best for you.
This is best.
So that's it?
You ever need me, just beep.
Sandy.
Beep.
You're gonna be all right, Courtney.
You're gonna be a legend.
Brightest star out there.
Legend has it he stayed in that car and cried for... six hours?
Someone called child services 'cause they thought a little girl was in trouble.
-Yeah. -In a car.
I mean, not that anybody has a good cry,
but his cry sounded like some kind of, like, lonesome moose. [imitates moose calling]
Whatever the amount of time was that he cried, he broke his own rules. He just got too close.
he broke his own rules. He just got too close.
It was Alfred all over again.
That was a tough time...
'cause Sandy not only lost his most talented client ever,
but he also lost this person he had feelings for.
[woman] It must've been especially painful for Sandy, because Courtney Clarke was everywhere.
Whoo!
Gary Rodgers, ladies and gentlemen.
♪ There's something In the way that you talk to me ♪
Yo, man, your girl blew up. She the shit now.
-Congratulations, Sandy. -Yeah.
Yeah, she's doing great. Uh...
We're not working together anymore, though.
Oh. Now that makes sense.
[chuckles] Later, dawg.
Yeah. That makes sense.
It makes sense if I kill you, Arsenio.
That would make sense.
♪ I know it is destiny ♪
♪ Hot summer nights, lovers ♪
Get out of town with that.
♪ Samba dancing with Fire in their eyes burning ♪
Come on.
♪ Hearts on full with desire ♪
♪ Wanting you, wanting me ♪
♪ Gonna make you wanna fall in love Love, love, love ♪
♪ Yeah, I think I'm gonna fall in love ♪
Oh, jeez, you're going for this? Give me a break here.
♪ Samba dancing with Fire in their eyes burning ♪
♪ Hearts on full with desire... ♪
All right. That's enough.
Come on, already.
What have we got here?
[gasps] Sandy!
I was scared you wouldn't come.
Hey. Where's Peter? Is he doing PT?
[chuckles] Sandy, why don't you take off your shoes?
Take off my... Oh, for your rug?
You know, my shoes are actually cleaner -than my socks, but... -[laughs]
[Cindy] And here we are.
-Hey, hey. -And here's your throne.
Why don't you sit down, Sandy? [chuckles]
-Hey. -What would you like to drink?
You know, I got a bit of a sour stomach.
If you got Dr. Brown's black cherry diet, that would be perfect.
Or a big glass of whiskey. Either way is...
Oh, look.
Did you ever see that naughty little movie, 9½ Weeks?
No, I didn't.
I saw Problem Child, though. That kid was hysterical.
Well, not as funny as that. Look at you. [laughs]
-Peter's been sick for a long time. -Yeah.
And a woman yearns for a man's touch.
Hey, no, that's natural.
Are you a man, Sandy?
I don't know. I...
I was bar mitzvahed, but that was a long time ago.
-You know what I love about you? -Yeah?
-Your voice. -[laughs]
Come on. I've got a surprise.
-Come along. -Hey, what's this? -[stammers] Just sit here. Now, sit. -Oh! Oh, yeah.
-[stammers] Just sit here. Now, sit. -Oh! Oh, yeah.
Touch me, Sandy. Touch me.
Well, I... I was just walking on the carpet in my socks. -I don't wanna zap you. -Oh. You can zap me. Just zap me.
-I don't wanna zap you. -Oh. You can zap me. Just zap me.
Cindy!
Don't worry about Peter. He only wants my happiness.
Yeah.
[stammers] I can't do it. I can't.
-I'd feel better if we-- -Don't, Sandy, please. -Don't leave. Stay here. -Oh...
We... we could put a blanket over his head.
-That's... that's actually a thought. -[Peter groans]
No. He says no. He said... I'm sorry.
[stammers] I consider Peter a friend,
whether he's alive or dead or in a vegetative state.
Thanks for the offer, okay? -[static crackles] -[yells]
I got the shock! I knew I... The socks.
Pervert.
-[man 1] Cindy! -[man 2] Cindy!
[man 3] Madonna!
[man 4] Melissa!
-Wrapping up the CDs. -[Sandy laughs]
-Doing too good a job. I feel that... -[audience laughs]
Just... a little bit overzealous with the wrapping is my feeling.
-What is the security on this thing? -[laughing]
It's a $12 item.
They got it wrapped up like the Hope Diamond.
It's impossible that they have cellophane...
What are you doing? You look gloomy. Reiser's killing out there. Come on.
You're like a monkey with a coconut. You're just looking at it...
He's killing the jokes that I wrote. It should be me up there killing it.
Next year, it will be. CBS sees your jokes work now.
Next year, you'll be telling those jokes, 'cause you wrote 'em.
You want me to do the jokes he's telling right now on next year's Grammys?
But you do 'em in your voice.
But the punch lines are the same. People have heard them already.
You do new punch lines.
So then they're new... They're new jokes. No, but you're doing 'em in your voice.
I wanna strangle you. -Don't say "your voice" again. -What are you...
I'm gonna kill you if you say "in my voice."
-Would you stop? I can't ever-- -Sandy?
Courtney.
Look at you!
-Hey! Hey. -Hey! Oh.
You, uh, remember my, uh, client Paul Reiser?
-Kevin Connors. -Kevin!
They should have had you host this show.
Paul Reiser is usually funny, but his jokes tonight are just corny.
-You still doing Atkins? I see. -Atkins.
-You look great! -Thank you. Well, my God.
-I look good? Look at you. -You look so good!
I have been following you. You are doing so well.
The Grammy tonight. Did I tell you when that was gonna happen, huh?
You deserve it all. You really do.
You deserve it, too. I wouldn't be here without you.
Are you kidding me? You cannot stop a shooting star.
-Aw. -Our scientists have proven this.
You are unbelievable, Sandy.
How's Bling? Where is he?
Yeah, he's my label guy. He's not my guy-guy anymore.
-Well, I'm so sorry. That's-- -Don't be.
Things happen for a reason.
I scored us each a goodie bag, my sweet.
-Hi, cuteness. -Can I keep your PlayStation?
Yes.
Guys, this is my new boyfriend, Ra... Say it for me, babe.
Ramiro Alejandro.
Sandy Wexler. Nice to meet you, Ramir... [stammers]
-Ramiro Alejandro. -I know.
Oh, is this the old Make-A-Wish guy you were telling me about?
No. No, we used to work together.
Hey, you wanna come to Clive Davis' after-party? You could ride with us.
I, uh, would love to. -I, uh, have to go somewhere. -[Courtney] Aw.
A client of mine... Amy Baskin. You... you remember Amy.
Yeah!
Yes, well, she got the lead in Sound of Music at the Pasadena Playhouse.
-She'll be Partygoer Number One. -[laughs] Yeah, that's the lead.
It is. She's... she's the lead partygoer.
Let's get together real soon, Sandy. Promise me.
-I promise. You promise me this. -Of course. What?
-After Clive's party... -Mmm-hmm. -...you put on the ugly duckling hat... -Oh, gosh.
...and you remind yourself where you came from.
Not on this hair.
-Like we... Nope, not on your hair. -[man] Courtney...
-You promise? -...we have to go.
-I promise. Okay. -I gotta see you. Okay.
[Courtney] Good to see you, babe.
Nice meeting you, Sammy! Hope they find a cure for you, buddy.
Buddy, move. Move! -Get out the way! -Which way are you moving?
-Okay, go! -Sandy, move! Sandy!
That was another tough goodbye for Sandy.
He... he didn't even know if he would ever see or talk to Courtney again.
Of course he kept himself busy.
He actually signed someone who was involved in the biggest form of entertainment in the '90s.
Wrestling. Professional wrestling.
Go to sleep, baby! It's night-night time! [grunts]
-[man] You're the man, Bedtime. -Isn't he?
Oh, I know you're gonna take the title on Sunday. -I'm gonna make 'em go night-night. -[laughs]
-Thank you. -I'm gonna lose.
You don't know that. Hang on, please.
Yeah, I do know that. I got the script.
Tsunami sits on my face until I tap out. I'm never gonna be the champ.
Okay, look.
The good thing is, you're gonna have a grown man sit on your face
and the entire world is gonna be watching. That's a positive.
-That's not a positive. -It's a positive because it's... -The fame factor. -What?
Hey, Bedtime. Will you rock me like a baby while my brother Dicky gets a picture?
-What are you, six? -Yeah, of course he will.
-Of course he will do it. -Do you see the size of this guy?
Just get on it.
Oh. Hang on, guys. My cellular device is ringing.
And I hit this, and I pull this.
Wexler Artists.
Mr. Wexler, it is Chippy from Dan Tana's.
Chippy! Hey! How's it going? How was your vacation to Cincinnati?
It was, uh, not a vacation. My mother died. I went to Cincinnati for the funeral.
Oh, yeah. That's right. How's your mother?
What are you calling for?
We have a delicate situation with a client of yours who has had too much to drink.
And unfortunately, there are very many paparazzi out front.
Oh, boy. Was it Gary or Kevin?
[man] Yeah, I chased him for six or seven blocks.
Just come on. Get a life, guys. Jeez.
-Bring me to the package. -This way.
Courtney?
What the... What's going on, kiddo?
Sandy! They found you!
Yeah, they found me.
You just stay put, okay? You stay right there.
Aw, Sandy to the rescue.
No one can find out about this. You understand me, Chippy? Not even you.
[scoffs] Okay, Sandy.
-[grunts] Okay. -Sandy!
What? She'll suffocate? Is that what you're saying?
[all chanting] Courtney! Courtney! Courtney! [Sandy] Go jump in a lake, fellas!
Ah! No, no, no, no! Oh, come on! Oh, please, please, please.
Keep your voices down. Let her sleep.
That's right. Just sleep. Sleep, sleep.
Let me get this up for you.
And you... you're breathing.
Are you breathing?
Yeah, there it is. Okay.
You'll be all right.
[Sandy] I'm telling you, he's the best ventriloquist in the business. He...
[woman] You don't see him talking?
No, you see his lips move slightly, but that's not the important thing.
The important thing is what the guy is saying.
No one looks at the lips if they're laughing, then...
No, kids love him.
[stammers] That's why I'm bringing it up to you. The kids will love this guy.
He's got curly hair, and... and he's got the mustache.
I'm sorry.
-Linda, I'm... I'm just asking if you... -Do you want some breakfast?
-Sandy... -If you could just
put a good word in for me. That's it.
Maybe put his headshot on his desk.
-I really wish I could, Sandy. -Hey, just meat, right?
Oh, yeah. Hold on. Just meat.
Just meet with him. That's all I'm asking you to do. Just meet with him.
All right, Sandy.
Thank you, Linda! Thank you!
Happy birthday on Wednesday.
-How did you know that? -Yeah, 'cause I know.
'Cause I know. I know everything.
How good is this? Phenomenal.
No one knows how to cook health food like... You're fantastic. You can do it all.
I owe you for last night. I'm embarrassed.
Hey, everybody gets zonked once in a while.
The question is, why are we doing it?
I don't know. I...
I just broke up with Billy.
Billy? Who's Billy? What happened to the Marc Anthony fella?
Marc Anthony? Come on, Sandy.
Pick up a People magazine every once in a while.
That was three boyfriends ago.
Oh, hey, I gotta start writing some of these names down.
I'm getting lost. I'm joking around with you.
What you're doing's perfectly natural.
Anyone in your position would be doing the same. Look, Liza did it.
Elizabeth Taylor did it. Sherwood Schwartz did it.
[sighs] Just my life.
It feels out of control.
I can't connect with anybody. I don't... I just don't feel safe.
I can't even go ten feet
without the paparazzi following me, taking pictures of me, spying on me.
I don't even want to leave my house anymore. What? You gotta leave your house.
Even Michael Jackson leaves his house once in a while. How?
He just don't look like Michael Jackson.
Excuse me, sir. You know what time it is?
Can you do me a favor?
Courtney Clarke was just in there. Uh, could you find out where she went?
This is... Somebody just got their life back!
-[laughs] -Why do you own this stuff?
Why? Those are my workout clothes.
You work out? [laughs]
Suzanne Somers personally gave me one of the very first ThighMasters. I use it as much as I can.
This conversation is over.
What? It's for firm thighs and buttocks.
-Sandy, please stop talking. -All right.
What we gonna do today? What we gonna do today? Anything you want, kiddo.
-Okay, lead the way, ThighMaster. -Hey! Now, wait a minute.
-By the way, the dogs are good for cardio. -Oh.
What does that mean? -You'll see. -[dogs barking]
-[Sandy] Go! Run! Run! Run! -Okay! Okay!
[Sandy] Well, here comes the test.
Look at that. Look at that. Huh?
Why am I golfing?
Golfing is very relaxing.
You don't have to think about nothing but smacking that ball.
Have you ever played before?
-No. -No? It's quite easy.
I'll take out the big stick 'cause it's fun to hit 'em far.
It's always good to warm up a little bit. Ow! Okay.
I got actually a little problem in the back.
-You okay? -Yeah. Just give me one sec.
God damn it.
-Should I call for help? -No, I'll be all right.
Just give me one sec. I just gotta stretch.
All right. Just give me one more sec. I do need help.
You need to go to the bathroom? No, I'm just... I'm getting it lined up.
Let's just say goodbye to all our troubles, okay?
Okay.
If you got any problems, put 'em into the ball and send them away.
Is it supposed to curve off to the right like that?
Yeah, I was playing a dogleg right. -A dogleg? -Right.
You gotta bend it around the trees, and that's what I was going for.
-Can I try it? -You wanna try? Okay.
I was gonna show you a little more, but okay.
-Okay. -So let me...
You know, maybe you should tee it up for yourself. Tee it up. Here.
-You tee it up, and you say goodbye. -Right here.
Okay.
And just have a good time and don't worry about where it goes.
-Let's see. -Okay.
Am I being hustled right now? What was that?
I swear I didn't play every day growing up with my Uncle Davey who's a golf pro.
-Oh, well... -[Courtney laughs]
Does this guy need a manager because...
-Come over here. -What are we doing?
We gotta work on that slice leg. -Oh, my God. -Here you go. Here you go.
-This is your day. I don't want to... -No. No, no, no. You got it?
-You're okay with it? [laughs] -Oh, it's my day now. Come on.
-In the hips. -In the hips.
Here we go.
Oh! All right! Hold on now. [laughs]
Huh? I beg your pardon?
[Sandy] Tell me. Tell me. [Courtney] A company called Pixar...
-[Sandy] Pixar? -...wants me to do a voice in some animated movie about a bunch of toys.
[Sandy] Cartoons are dead.
-Tell 'em pass. -[Courtney chuckles]
-Okay. Sandy knows best. -I mean, come on. I do know best.
The lady at Chili's said they'll keep it open till 10:30 for us, so that's good.
How you feeling anyway?
As good as anybody can feel knowing they're about to get their face sat on by that guy.
Damn, that's a big ass!
-That's right-- -Get off me!
Listen. Will you just trust me? This is a good night for you.
Trust you? It's humiliating. My kids are out there, man! My wife might not ever kiss me again!
Randy Savage had to get whooped 24 times
before he finally pinned Ted DiBiase to win the belt, man!
How does your platinum-selling ass know about wrestling history?
I'm from Alaska. It was either watch wrestling or fish.
Is that adorable?
Will you just take it all in and promise me you'll have fun?
This is a big night for you. Look at me.
Man, how does your goofy ass have me feeling good right now? That's impossible!
Because you know I love ya and I'm your family.
All right, good luck.
Get out there!
Yeah! Come on!
-[referee] Fight! -[bell ringing]
Okay.
No!
Break, break, break, break!
Hey, what are you doing? Stick to the script.
I'm sorry, Tsunami. You're gonna have to earn this one. What? Hey...
This is bullshit. I'm supposed to win.
This happening? Huh, this is happening?
Well, bring it on!
Okay, get back there, champ!
There it is. Now it's getting real.
Thank you very much!
What is this?
No, you're not! What's going on here?
Say it!
It's time to go night-night!
-I got the belt! I'm the champ! [laughs] -[man] You the man! You the man!
-Sandy! How? -What do you... Huh?
The referee is a client, and Wexler Artists look out for each other.
Oh, man! Those guys are gonna fire his ass!
Of course they are,
but I already got him a job as a referee for the Harlem Globetrotters.
-I know. I understand. -You're never going to work again!
What do you say, champ? Proud of ya.
Oh! I'm so happy, Sandy!
I love you. This is your moment. This is all you.
I'm just so happy for you and your wife and your kids.
Okay? That's all I want.
-I love you! I love you! -You deserve everything!
-Courtney, get in here! -You deserve everything!
Uh, we do have to go to Chili's, though. I told the lady we'd be there by 10:30, so let's get going.
-Why are you talking about Chili's now? -I just don't wanna...
I don't want her to screw us for the next time, you know. Let's go.
[Sandy] Eat up those baby backs, guys.
How do you take care of everybody and never worry about yourself?
How do you become Sandy?
Oh, well, listen.
How do you get to Carnegie Hall? Practice, practice, practice.
I wish I could stay here.
This is the best day I've had in years.
Listen, you can stay as long as you want.
I'm supposed to go to New York tomorrow
and shoot this VH1 thing with Lenny Kravitz.
Yeah?
That's a good thing.
Is it?
Then why don't I wanna go?
Tell me I don't have to go, Sandy.
No, no, no.
Why won't you?
'Cause that's not my job anymore.
Okay.
What do you want me to do?
What I want you to do is concentrate on your career.
Music comes first.
Go to New York.
-You know what? [scoffs] -What?
You're a jerk.
[Firuz] Oh, God, yes!
What was that?
-Firuz! -Oh, all right, then.
I'll go take a walk or something.
Have the best night of your life, Sandy.
I'm trying.
Ultimately, I have to move.
[Courtney] The day was perfect, the night was better.
Thank you. I'm off to New York.
Sandy knows best.
Love, Court.
-Pick that up! -Shut up, Firuz!
Just shut up.
Success can be really lonely.
That's why you kinda long for someone to share it with.
So a week later, her and Lenny Kravitz moved in together.
And then two weeks later after that, moved out.
And she moved on to Johnny Depp.
-Chris Cornell. -George Clooney.
-Ziggy Marley. -Pauly Shore.
I went out with her?
Man, Sandy was messed up.
[man] Sir, are you committing suicide? 'Cause I don't think I'm allowed to film that!
No, I'm not!
I'm fine, thank you very much!
She can date whoever she wants to date! That's her thing!
-He's talking to me. -He's talking to you?
Sandy, that pool looks far away. How long until my skin starts burning?
I think the safety advisor said four seconds you get
before you must be wet.
You think he said that or he said that? Four?
I got to admit, I haven't been sleeping. I'm just so tired.
I don't care. I'm about to be lit on fire! He said it! He said what he said.
Okay, here we go. Right calf first.
Okay. Okay.
-Okay! [yelling] -Okay, go, go, go!
-[bat chirping] -What? Oh!
[groans] No!
No! [groans]
Okay. So birds sleep at night, but the bats wake up.
-Okay. -[Gary groaning loudly]
Now we know. Now we know. No, this is a good thing.
I'm telling you, Bud, he can follow anybody.
He can follow... He followed Minnie at The Ice House recently.
I know you don't like The Ice House. I don't know why I said that. I'm sorry.
All right, I'm gonna go watch Kevin.
-Hey, Sandy. -Kirby.
You got a minute? Yeah, I'm going to watch my client on stage.
Actually, Kevin and I think it's time for a change.
He's dumping me through you? You gotta admit, you've been a bit clingy. I'm telling ya.
You're telling me? I'm telling you. So we agree.
Bud, Alex, how are you guys? Good to see you.
It's all happening here tonight, isn't it?
♪ You give me butterfly, butterflies ♪
♪ Down in my soul ♪
♪ Butterflies, butterfly ♪
Why the hell do you have me singing that song? -They hated it! -No.
This is an awful idea, Sandy!
No, I... I'm telling you, you did better than you think!
-You are out of your mind! -No! No!
-I'm sorry. -No, don't.
-It's time you go night-night. -No night-night! No!
-You're fired. -Oh, God! Come on!
No! You can't do that to me! Aah!
We're done, Sandy. We're done! Don't say that.
[narrator on TV] Your life is an adventure. You don't want to miss a single moment.
-[Sandy] This girl's the new Grace Kelly. -Now, you don't have to.
Vag-Eze, America's number one vaginal discharge ointment.
Side effects include dryness, burning, itching, fallopian tube--
-What's vaginal discharge? -Can I have some?
You said it was a coffee commercial, Sandy!
What the hell is going on here?
Please, God, I need a miracle.
[Mr. Buttons] "Remember, kids, if you laugh when you are blue,
the sun... [sniffles] ...will always shine on you.
[voice breaking] Honk, honk.
Mr. Buttons."
Teddy!
Wonderful news. Mr. Buttons is dead!
You killed him?
[laughs] No! He hung himself!
-Really? -His time slot's open, guys.
I got you the audition.
It doesn't feel right. I mean, I feel bad for the guy.
Screw Mr. Buttons! It's our turn!
-He couldn't take the pressure. -He took the coward's way out.
I gotta tell you, it's the first time I... I agree with the puppets.
Friend Boom Boom is gonna sing a song for us today, kids. Would you like that? Would you like to hear it?
I hate singing.
What are you talking about? You sing all the time.
You sing in the car, you sing in the shower...
You spy on me in the shower?
-That is not what I meant. -I can sing, Ted.
-Would you like to hear that, kids? -[children] Yeah!
You have something in your throat, Heather? Yeah, your hand, dummy!
I can't believe it. These kids are eating your boy up! I mean, he could be the next Buttons.
-Didn't I tell you? Didn't I say? -Yeah, great.
Hey! There's a caterpillar on your face.
What's with you? What, are you okay?
-No, no, I, uh... -Something wrong? There's something wrong?
Maybe a little dizzy. I had too many bacon bits this morning.
Bacon Bits? What is that? That's a dog food, no?
No. Didn't say that on the box.
Yeah, all right, whatever. Tell you what, you come to my office in an hour.
We'll hammer out a deal.
I'll get your boy on the air ASAP. Okay, bud?
All righty. That makes me very happy.
-[Sandy] They absolutely loved you. -[Ted laughing]
-You're getting the job, Teddy. -I did good. I did good.
My only fear is they're gonna try to lowball you on the deal, all right?
The key to this meeting is tough talk.
These TV jerks only respond to bullying and aggression.
Well, I'll let you handle all that, okay? [chuckles]
I'm no doctor, but Sandy look like crap on a stick.
No, I'm fine.
-Sandy! -[Sandy] No.
[Heather] I think he's having a heart attack.
We... we gotta get you to a hospital. Boom Boom, call an ambulance!
No, Boom Boom. First meeting, close deal, then hop-ital.
Forget the meeting. You can barely speak.
But... you can.
[Marty] So what we saw in there told us everything we need to know.
We love Ted. The kids love Ted.
-That is... That's spectacular. -[clapping] Thank you. Thank you so much.
But the fact is he's never been on television.
So here's the deal.
Six episodes, 15 grand a pop, and then we see what we do from there.
[imitating Sandy] Are you kidding me, Marty?
-What? -You think I'm a complete a-hole?
No, no, no.
Then why are you treating me like one?
I think it's a reasonable starting place, Sandy.
Reasonable, Fishbein? It's dog crap.
If we take this deal,
my guy's gonna end up at the end of a rope just like your last clown.
-Whoa, man! -All right. Sandy, Sandy. Take it easy.
Take it easy. Just make us a counter.
We want a two year... Five year deal.
Sandy, please.
Twenty-four show minimum, 50 grand an episode,
with a 200K bump every year we're on the air.
This guy's an animal.
He's literally foaming at the mouth.
And the puppets get their own dressing rooms.
Just kidding.
Okay.
Three years, 20 show minimum, at the numbers you mentioned.
Deal.
Ted, welcome to the UPN family.
And that's how Sandy died. On the conference room floor at UPN.
Just kidding. They took him to the hospital.
Where am I?
You had a minor heart attack. A warning shot.
Probably due to stress. And meat.
Just need to rest for a few days. Here you go.
This is too nice of a room for me. I can't afford this.
Come on, man. I wasn't gonna let you slum it down in the regular people ward.
First class all the way for my Sandman.
-You came! -Of course.
Miss Clarke, I love your new album.
I play it every day. I'm obsessed with it. Thank you. -You're so beautiful. -Thank you.
-Can I touch you? -[Sandy laughs]
Oh, I... I... I just touched the queen! [laughs]
Oh, and you, sir, you need a new bedpan, so I'm gonna grab that for you.
-I used the bedpan while I was sleeping? -Thanks.
You did a new album?
Oh. Don't you worry about that. I want you to worry about getting better.
It's scary, knowing your heart's not good.
Sandy Wexler, you have the biggest, best, strongest heart
in this whole miserable town. And that's a fact.
Miserable town?
It's been quite nice to you, thank you very much.
[scoffs] I guess.
I just feel like I need a change, you know?
So I'm moving to Seattle.
Seattle? What are you talking about?
That whole grunge thing, that's old hat. Why would you go there?
The guy I'm marrying lives there.
You're getting married?
Yeah.
Saturday, in Malibu.
His name is Eric Lamonsoff. He's not in show business.
He owns a chain of coffee stores.
A store that just sells coffee? I don't know.
That ain't gonna work, kid.
I just need a... a break from the music.
But singing's the only thing that makes you happy.
Yeah, but I'm looking for something else to make me happy.
'Cause that's not it anymore.
Miss Clarke, I'm so sorry to bother you, but would you?
Sure.
Is that the record? Can you play it?
-Is there a player in the room? -Yeah.
I gotta hear this.
You were always there for me.
Even when you weren't.
Goodbye, Sandy.
♪ My world had no room for dreams ♪
♪ When you found me ♪
♪ I was happy just floating downstream ♪
♪ That's when you found me ♪
♪ Life was passing me by But you told me to fly ♪
♪ I thought that I was invisible ♪
♪ But you saw me ♪
♪ Yeah, you saw me ♪
♪ And I'm gonna love you ♪
♪ In the rain or shine Till the end of time ♪
♪ Let you know that I need you ♪
♪ You're my everything The reason I sing ♪
♪ Just take me away Give me love ♪
♪ The northern lights And the stars above... ♪
♪ ...went wandering far and near ♪
♪ But in every place They said to his face now ♪
[all] ♪ Get out of here ♪
-♪ Get out, get out ♪ -[actors quacking]
I love this song.
This guy's butchering it.
Alfred?
Wow. Nobody's called me that in years.
Good to see you, Sandy.
Hey, what are you doing here?
Well, this is where I get all my best ideas.
Well, here and the radio.
Yeah, you... you've been on such a roll.
From "My Bologna" to "Pretty Fly for a Rabbi."
Just great. Clever stuff.
Oh, thanks, man. Well, you know, you're the one who put it all together.
-[laughs] -Remember what you told me?
-Stick with the accordion. -Uh-huh.
Only wear Hawaiian shirts.
Do funny words to other people's songs.
-Genius. -Huh?
I'm glad. I'm glad it all worked out for you. I really am. Sincerely.
Thank you, man. Well, I'm just sorry that we couldn't have done it together.
Hey, listen. I got too close.
Our friendship was getting in the way of our business. You did what you had to do.
Wait a minute. Is that what you think happened?
That is what happened.
-You thought we got too close? -Yeah.
No, Sandy. [stammers] That's not why I left you.
I left you because you could never tell me the truth.
What? That's ridiculous!
Tell me one time I didn't tell you the truth.
You told me we could copyright the word "weird."
No, I said it was weird that we couldn't copyright it.
You... Come on. You were hearing what you want to hear.
Sandy, you tell people what you think they want to hear.
-I don't agree. -No, look. [stammers]
For me, if you really care about someone, you tell 'em the truth.
You're right, Alfred.
Damn it, you're 100% right.
-Your hair looks good, by the way. -Thanks, man, I...
-You're lying again. -I am. It looks like dirty spaghetti.
I gotta stop. I'm gonna stop!
-I'm gonna stop, Alfred. -You should.
Hey! Hey! You suck!
You know what? Real funny, Weird Al.
Why don't you make me laugh one time without using somebody else's music?
Get off of me.
[Sandy] I'd like to book a space for a private event.
No! No! Don't tell me it's impossible! Everything's negotiable!
Put it on your calendar, Ted. Okay? Don't be late.
I think we'll be busy.
-I'm not talking to you. -Hey! I'm talking to Ted!
-Okay. We'll be there. -What's his problem?
I don't know. Just do what he says.
It's an international call, so talk fast, okay?
Can I count on you?
Perfect. And you have a valid driver's license?
How am I looking?
You actually look good, Sandy.
[yells] That surprises you?
-Courtney, your limo is here. -It's showtime, girl.
Wow. Um, it's early. I'll be right down, guys.
It's a big day, Miss Courtney Clarke.
The biggest.
-You look very beautiful. -Thanks.
How is traffic out there?
Traffic's not a problem. You sit back, relax.
Let Firuz take good care of you.
Sir, I think you missed our turn.
No, no, no, no.
That was a thing that on purpose I did.
We're going shortcut.
What are we doing here?
Please, miss, go inside.
I'm going inside to call the police.
Sandy?
Just you and me under the stars again, kid.
-Yeah, but now's not exactly a good time. -I know.
And I have no right to say to you what I'm gonna say, but I'm gonna do it anyway.
You like making trouble, don't you, Sandy?
Look, here's the thing.
Maybe sometimes I got a way of telling people what I think they want to hear,
rather than what I'm really thinking.
So I was thinking, if I started saying the stuff that I think,
maybe I'm gonna find out that's actually what the people wanted to hear.
Oh, shit, Sandy. You mixed up your pills.
What I'm trying to say is this Eric Lamonsoff guy is wrong for you.
Just like Bling was the wrong guy and Lenny Kravitz.
Marc Anthony. And Prince. And Apollonia.
Dennis Rodman, who's great on the boards, but...
You dated Dennis Rodman? Good Lord.
Dad, what are you doing here?
Sandy's gettin' to that part. You just listen.
Yeah, thank you, Willy.
All right, here's the deal.
All those guys were chasing you because you're incredible.
But none of them really know who you are.
Who am I, Sandy?
You're Courtney Clarke.
The beautiful swan from Magic Mountain.
Now, I wouldn't tell you to break a deal unless I thought there was a better offer out there for you.
-Is there a better offer? -Oh, absolutely.
There's an aggressive offer out there.
There's a guy who's willing to be devoted to you 100% for your entire life.
A guy who will make all the tough phone calls, fight all the big fights.
A guy who will never doubt you.
Even when you doubt yourself.
Keep going.
He has surprisingly muscular quads due to the ThighMaster.
But what does this guy want in return?
All he wants in return is for you to be you,
just the way you are, because he loves you.
I love you.
I've always loved you.
You're my star, Courtney.
I love you, too, Sandy.
I should have told you the truth so long ago.
Listen, I dye my hair.
And I also apologize to my clothes if I don't wear 'em enough.
-No more truth. -Absolutely.
Just kiss me.
Save that kiss. I came all the way down here for a wedding.
-Let's get to it. -Yeah, let's not get him mad.
Yeah, you're right.
Boom Boom is ordained as an interdenominational minister.
Or we also have...
[clears throat] Hey. Shalom.
There he is.
What do you say, kid?
Will you marry me?
You had me at "shalom."
♪ I prefer you to remain a Christian ♪
No, no, no. That's fine. Either way, I'm good.
Meanwhile, Eric Lamonsoff was across town waiting at the altar.
And don't feel sorry for him. That whole coffee thing worked out just great.
Plus, he ended up marrying Downtown Julie Brown.
-Honey? -What? -You got a little schmutz, right there. -Thank you. Thank you.
Something had clicked with Sandy.
And he started reaching out one by one to his old clients.
And because he started telling them the truth... most of them ended up having pretty big careers.
-I signed with him. -I signed with him.
-I signed with him. -We signed with him.
And of course, I went back to Sandy. He's my manager and my best friend again.
Too bad a wedding officiated by a puppet was not legal.
Which is why, 20 years later, they're finally making it real.
-[man] There he is! -Yeah! How y'all doing? [laughs]
Show business wealth is good, but it's not real wealth.
-It's not-- -Hey, shot, man?
-Let's do a shot? Oh, all right. -I'm good. I'm good.
-Hey! -Oh, my God! Hi!
I'm sorry, what?
I'm sorry, man. I can't understand a word you're saying.
No, seriously, I got nothing.
All right. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hi, guys.
Oh, thank you, Sandy. All these years in the business, he's got me working a wedding.
This is fantastic. He booked me in a tent, really is what it is.
Said if I do good here, I get a yurt next year.
No, um... that was, uh, some ceremony, too.
It was a... It was a little awkward, the priest and the rabbi together. That's always a...
The rabbi, he was, like, Googling, "Who's Jesus Christ?"
But that's okay.
Uh, what else is going on?
-Just bring out the couple already. -Yeah, quit doing your act.
-You're right. Okay. -[applause]
Please welcome, for the first time ever, Mr. and Mrs. Sandy and Courtney Wexler.
Dad. Bye.
-Sing! Sing! -Do it, girl!
Hey, hey, it could be worse. He could be eating.
♪ There's no business like show business Like no business I know ♪
♪ Everything about it is appealing ♪
♪ Everything that traffic will allow ♪
♪ Nowhere can you get That happy feeling ♪
♪ When you are stealing that extra bow ♪
♪ There's no people like show people ♪
♪ They smile when they are low ♪
He's so happy.
♪ Even with a turkey That you know will fold ♪
♪ You may be stranded out in the cold ♪
♪ Still you wouldn't change it For a sack of gold ♪
♪ Let's go on with the show ♪
I'm embarrassed for him.
♪ The costumes, the scenery The makeup, the props ♪
♪ The audience that lifts you When you're down ♪
♪ The headaches, the heartaches The backaches, the flops ♪
♪ The sheriff who escorts you Out of town ♪
You heard me, Pauly.
Yes! That's right, you son of a bitch!
♪ The opening when your heart Beats like a drum ♪
♪ The closing When the customers won't come ♪
-You've been there. -Shut up.
♪ There's no business like show business Like no business I know ♪
♪ Traveling through the country Will be thrilling ♪
♪ Standing out in front On opening nights ♪
♪ Smiling as you watch The theater filling ♪
♪ And there's your billing Out in the lights ♪
♪ There's no people like show people ♪
♪ They smile when they are low ♪
♪ Yesterday they told you You would not go far ♪
♪ That night you open and there you are ♪
♪ Next day on your dressing room They've hung a star ♪
[all] ♪ Let's go on with the show ♪
[harmonizing] ♪ Let's go on with the show ♪
Yeah, every time I ran into Sandy, he used to say, "I got to meet this Beavis kid.
Yeah, I want to represent him."
He didn't understand that that's a cartoon character.
You can't really manage a cartoon character.
And, uh, he did give me his number though,
and, uh, we used to call him in the middle of the night.
[Sandy, groggy] Wexler Artists.
[Beavis] Is this Sandy?
Yeah. Yeah, who... who is this?
[chuckles] You know who this is.
No, I don't. That's why I'm asking.
[chuckles] Guess.
Are you Gary Busey?
[chuckles] No way! Dumbass.
[stammers] Who? Beavis?
-You suck! -What? No, I don't.
You suck balls.
No, no, no, no.
You don't sound so good.
Now, tell me where you are and I'll pick you up.
[stammers] I'm in your butt.
What? What's this?
Yeah, I'm in there right now. [chuckles]
Hemorrhoids.
Wait. You get out of my butt. Get out right now.
Kill yourself.
Okay. Okay, that's it. I'm hanging up the phone.
[Sandy] Wexler Artists.
[Butt-Head] Uh... Sandy Wexler?
[Sandy] Who is this?
[Sandy stammers] Oh, hi, Butt-Head.
[Butt-Head] Uh, Sandy, I'm calling about Beavis.
[Sandy] Uh, yeah. Beavis wasn't too courteous last night, Butt-Head.
[Butt-Head] Uh, that's why I'm calling.
[Butt-Head] Uh, Beavis wanted to say he's sorry. [Sandy] Oh, okay. He is, huh? He... he's sorry?
[Butt-Head] Yeah. Beavis says he's sorry you're such a dumbass.
[Sandy] What? What's that? What? What'd you say?
[Butt-Head] Uh, and he's also sorry
that he said your face looks like a toilet and your balls smell funny.
[Sandy] Okay, okay. Well, you tell him I accept.
Look, you're good kids, and I like what you're doing.
I think if you want to get to the next level, you're gonna--
-[Butt-Head] Uh, hang on a second. -[Sandy] Okay.
[Butt-Head] Beavis wants to say something, sir. -[Sandy] Oh, okay. -[Beavis] Hey, this is Beavis.
-[Sandy] Oh, okay. -[Beavis] Hey, this is Beavis.
[Sandy] Uh... oh, hi, Beavis.
-[Beavis] Sandy Wexler? -Yeah.
[Beavis chuckles] Sandy Wexler?
-[Sandy] Yeah, I know my name. -[Beavis] Of Wexler Fartists?
[Sandy] All right. Okay, come on, guys.
[Butt-Head chuckles] Uh... You said you wanna come on guys?
[Sandy] That's it. I'm getting off.
[Beavis chuckling] You said you're getting off.
[Sandy] All right. Listen, you sons of bitches.
I'll find your parents and make you wish you never messed with the king of Hollywood.
You said "wood."
-All right. Come on! -[chuckling]
Stop it!
They needed somebody from midnight to, it must have been, 4:00 or 6:00 a.m.
The station policy was you can only play the same Top 10 songs,
over and over and over again.
I just... I was so bored, that I... I...
I announced on the air,
"If anybody's listening to this program
and would like to engage in a little bit of a banter,
just a little discussion - not much, just 30 seconds -
it would be great.
And I'll give you 25 bucks, the first person who calls in."
This was before talk radio, by the way.
And nobody called in.
I upped it to $50.
Nobody called in.
I got up to $100.
Not a soul called in.
And I had a feeling...
of what so many people have felt,
and continued to feel for years,
of desperately wanting to be heard...
and nobody is listening.
[all chant] The whole world is watching!
[shouts] Protect who you serve!
You work for us!
Work hard - we have!
[Reich] There's a huge amount of anger and frustration in the United States.
It's been growing for years.
People are worried about their jobs, they're worried about their wages.
They feel like they don't have a voice in deciding anything
They feel like they don't have a voice in deciding anything that pertains to them,
politically or economically.
I pick this up everywhere I go.
Americans all over the country are asking...
"How can we make our voices heard?"
Well, thank you.
The name of the book is Saving Capitalism.
I've got two kinds of reactions just to the title.
"Saving Capitalism? Wait a minute.
That implies that there's something wrong with capitalism."
How are you paying for this? There are others who say...
"Why would you want to save capitalism?"
[announcer] Robert Reich, Professor of Public Policy at UC Berkeley
and former Secretary of Labor under President Clinton.
[Geist] You've captured this moment in American culture and politics very well in this book.
It's Saving Capitalism: For the Many, Not the Few.
[Mike Barnacle] We've got 20 seconds. Can you...?
[Reich] I thought we'd have more time than that.
Can you define the aspirations of the middle class today,
as opposed to 30 years ago?
I think the aspiration of the middle class today
is almost exactly what it was 30 years ago.
That is: "Let's have a better life."
"If I'm working hard, I want my children to have a better life."
Upward mobility is what people expect from this system, but they aren't getting it.
Most Americans now have severe doubts about the system.
They think the system is rigged.
The real issue is, is the system working for most people,
or is it working for a very small group,
becoming smaller and smaller at the top?
Robert Reich, thank you very much for being with us.
Former Labor Secretary under President Clinton...
These days, a lot of people certainly know the game is rigged.
They hear that, they feel it.
But they don't know exactly how it's rigged.
[Reich] I wanted to go to where people didn't really know me, my books...
I wanted to go to places where I could actually interact.
I didn't expect to sell many books, but I did hope to learn something.
-[Reich] Hi, Yuja. -[Yuja] Welcome.
-[Reich] Nice to see you. -[Yuja] So great to finally meet you.
Look who we found.
-Morning! -Reverend Sandoval.
-Welcome to Kansas City. -Reverend.
-Thank you. -Claudia Nelson.
Hi, Claudia.
-You're Chair of the Board? -I'm the Chair.
I am a part of this work because of my family and my community.
My youngest son, Paul,
is married and has four little children.
He's worked all of his life.
But unlike when I started to work as a young person,
he seems to find jobs that don't have a livable wage.
They're not full-time jobs.
He works 60 hours-plus a week to take care of his wife and four kids,
and still struggles a lot,
even to the point that he's had to move back in my house
with his family of six at one point,
because they continued to struggle.
His wife has $100,000 in debt in student loans.
She has a Master's degree. She has no job.
It is not an uncommon story in our community.
Unfortunately, Claudia, I'm hearing it all the time.
And it's...
It's a story that affects huge numbers of Americans.
A lot of these things that we're talking about, to me,
is all a spin-off...
of...
an economy that has been immoral
from its inception.
It was not designed to include everyone...
in a fair way,
in the sense of access.
How do you reform something that's immoral...
at its core?
There's nothing inherent in an economic system
that makes it either immoral or moral, or good or bad.
It depends on how it's organized.
And if it's organized for people,
then it can be a good and moral system.
[Reich] Our American economic system -
capitalism -
is a system based on private property
and a free exchange of goods and services.
One of America's greatest strengths is our free market.
Let the free market system decide.
We all believe in the free market.
You know, that's...
That's what our capitalist system is about.
The law of supply and demand operating unimpeded by government.
Government is not the solution to our problem,
government is the problem.
Few ideas have more profoundly poisoned the minds of so many
as the notion of a free market
existing somewhere in the universe...
into which the government intrudes.
There's no such thing as a free market
without government making the rules of the game.
What kind of rules?
Rules governing property.
Monopoly.
Contracts.
Bankruptcy.
And enforcement.
Let's take property.
Until the 1860s,
human beings were lawful property in the United States.
It took years of activism and a civil war,
but Americans finally made slavery illegal.
We'll take bankruptcy.
If you're a big business,
you can declare bankruptcy over and over again
to protect your assets.
But if you're a student,
you can't reorganize your debt in bankruptcy.
Or if you're a homeowner who's under water because the market has collapsed,
you can't use bankruptcy. It's illegal.
These rules don't come from nature.
They reflect the interests of those with the most power.
Which means they change over time.
In the name of all those who do the work,
pay the taxes,
raise the kids and play by the rules...
In the name of the hard-working Americans who make up our forgotten middle class,
I proudly accept your nomination
for President of the United States.
[Reich] Just about 50 years ago,
I met Bill Clinton.
I had already met Hillary Rodham.
She was an undergraduate at Wellesley.
I had been president of my class at Dartmouth.
We were both involved in student government.
So I knew her and I knew Bill. And I...
Even the first day of Yale Law School,
I was sitting in the cafeteria talking to Bill Clinton,
and Hillary came up and she said, "Bob, how are you?"
I said, "Great, Hillary.
I want to introduce to you my friend from Oxford.
We were just at Oxford together. Bill Clinton."
She said, "Hi, Bill."
And he said, "Hi, Hillary."
[Reich] And then, 25 years ago,
Bill Clinton called me.
He wanted me to be his Secretary of Labor.
I was excited,
because maybe we could actually make some real, real progress.
You had this pent-up demand in the country
for something that is very, very different, that has a different vision.
We wanted to create the possibilities
for people who were not really yet participating in the economy.
Because it was building the future of the country.
It was building the capacity of the country to not only grow,
but to bring everybody along in that growth.
We were young. We were the new generation. We were the boomers.
I was gonna go down and try to help him figure out what to do about the economy.
and try to help him figure out what to do about the economy.
In Focus this evening, the shrinkage in America's middle class.
Even though the economy is now growing,
many of the jobs it is creating pay poverty wages.
[reporter] President Clinton has been promising wages would rise.
But, at the Labor Department,
Secretary Robert Reich sees the number of working poor growing.
More and more of the nation's income and wealth were going to the top.
People in the middle - the middle class -
People in the middle - the middle class - were under greater and greater stress.
The poor were not doing well at all.
I thought we could actually reverse that direction.
I spent a lot of time all over America,
and what I got back from people was a lot of the skepticism and cynicism
and the beginnings of the anger
that has really emerged full force in 2016.
It was just beginning then.
[Tim] A pleasure to introduce Secretary Reich to the Show Me state,
and to mid-Missouri.
Thank you for being here.
As Tim said...
I'm...
This started out as a book tour.
You know? I've done a lot of books. I've written a lot of books.
I've tried to help people understand what's really going on.
I don't want to just go out to book stores.
I really want to talk to people about their lives.
Yes, that's true!
My name is Darvin Bentlage and I'm a farmer.
And...
There are other names they use for me, but...
I just mainly go by "farmer" and "cattle man."
The family farm has been around for 80 years.
You're kind of raised into it, you know?
I jumped on my first tractor when I was ten years old.
I could barely reach the pedals.
It's a lot of hard work.
Our margin of profits are way down, you know?
Farm income this year has been predicted to drop 50%.
Well, excuse me. Nothing I buy has dropped 50%.
I don't think anything in the grocery store has dropped 50%.
I have a son who would kind of like to come back on the farm.
There's nothing that I would want more than to sell my home and move down here.
The fiscal part of it is pretty rough.
What kind of profit margins are you pulling in a year?
Oh, the profit margins, yeah.
It varies, but...
The total deal, you know... I make around...
The year before was like $320,000.
-You spent... -[Darvin] $300.
$300, so, in my mind,
your profit margin...
would have been $20,000.
Correct?
Yeah.
There is a vicious cycle that has set in.
The American economy today
is almost twice as large as it was in 1980.
But the median wage has gone nowhere.
If fact, if anything, most Americans' wages, adjusted for inflation, have declined.
So where did all the money go? It went upward.
In 2014, corporate profits before taxes
reached their highest share of the total economy
in at least 85 years.
Meanwhile, the percentage of the economy going to people's wages
has dropped dramatically.
Hidden inside the rules of the market, money flows upwards -
out of the pockets of average Americans,
and into the profits of major industries,
executives
and shareholders.
The vicious cycle is that, as income and wealth go to the top,
so does political power.
And here is where it gets interesting,
because as political power goes to the top,
the top has more and more ability
to influence the rules of the game.
[Reich] I began my political education
when I went to Washington in 1967
as an intern for Robert F. Kennedy.
Being in Washington was thrilling.
People in the bottom 20% were getting ahead.
In 1964, when our large and growing middle class was the envy of the world,
when our large and growing middle class was the envy of the world,
roughly 77% of Americans said they trusted government
to do the right thing.
That's compared to 20% today.
Washington itself was kind of seedy in those days.
There wasn't much money flowing into Washington.
The business community was just beginning to come to Washington
and set up shop.
It was just... just starting.
In the late 1970s,
I got a job as Director of Policy Planning for the Federal Trade Commission.
While I was there, we came out with a proposed rule
that would ban advertising directed at children,
with regard to unhealthy, sugary products.
The Federal Trade Commission votes today on recommendations by its staff
that would put tight new restrictions on TV commercials aimed at children.
[reporter #2] Advertisers are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars
fighting the consumer groups and the FTC staff proposals.
The makers of sugared cereals, candy, and toys are fighting back.
You would have thought we had declared World War Three,
because the business community was so upset.
I began to see businesses and business associations
begin to get more and more power in Washington,
more and more power over...
the legislative process.
They closed the Federal Trade Commission because of that rule.
[reporter #3] At the Consumer Complaints Office, yesterday's mail was unopened.
Hearings with food companies were suspended.
A laboratory machine that smokes 500 cigarettes a day
to monitor tar and nicotine content of the different brands got a break.
It didn't have to smoke.
[Reich] What I discovered is that big corporations, Wall Street,
very, very wealthy individuals,
they could actually change laws and regulations
to favor them,
and to hurt others...
that that process was almost invisible.
It happened inside the administrative agencies,
inside legislatures.
But the net effect of all of it
was to, very subtly, change the rules of the game.
What I had witnessed had been quietly launched in 1971.
The Chamber of Commerce,
a powerful business lobbying group,
asked a corporate lawyer named Lewis Powell
to write a position paper.
Known as The Powell Memo,
his paper rapidly circulated among national business leaders.
"The American economic system," he said,
"is under broad attack."
Business must learn "the lesson that political power is necessary,
that such power must be assiduously cultivated,
and that when necessary,
it must be used aggressively and with determination,
without embarrassment,
and without reluctance."
His memo tuned into a manifesto
for new business-oriented think tanks,
lobbying groups,
trade associations,
and professional organizations
committed to shaping the government to better meet their needs.
The vicious cycle was in full swing.
First, let me ask, how do you like to be called? How should we call you?
-Your Excellency. -Yeah.
No, call me Bob.
Can we go around the table? -Maybe... -...introduce yourselves.
-Maybe... -...introduce yourselves. Yes, introduce yourselves.
My name is Woody Cozad. I used to be a lawyer. Now, I'm a lobbyist.
And, as one of my...
fellow right-wing friends said to me, I...
I'm like a doctor who specializes in the diseases of the very rich.
And so...
I try to represent people who can pay my bills.
So I'm one of those evil guys manipulating the rules and changing them.
What are you…? Don't be defensive.
[Cozard] I'm not defensive!
[Cozard] I'm not defensive! I'm very proud of my job.
You're doing a job and a job has to be done.
I'm Crosby Kemper, the Director of the Kansas City Public Library.
And I was a Republican candidate for the state legislature in 1980.
And I referred to myself then as I refer to myself now, as a Libertarian.
I have been a very moderate Republican
and, actually, have helped a few Democrats.
So...
I was happy that Crosby invited me. Thank you.
You know what I would like to do? If you don't mind...
Please.
I would like to put party labels aside and not talk Democrats and Republicans,
just for a little while.
Because I really want to talk about how you view...
politics, the economy, your values.
You try... You...
You want to dismiss the argument about government versus the market.
I'm just talking about government.
And people who operate that government
will do so in their own self-interests.
And that's what the constitution was designed to limit.
And so the government should be limited.
I was a regulator.
I was at the Federal Trade Commission.
We would come up with simple rules. And then the lobbyists...
-[man] Right. -...would attack.
They would say,
"You have got to give this little... Make this exception and this exception and this exception."
And then...
Congress would start calling and they'd say,
"Our business constituents want this exception."
It's not either market or government.
It is power that is misused.
Let's talk about power.
Let's talk about my two clients who started a company 20 years ago
and are now billionaires.
They employ 9,000 people,
they pay hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes,
they pay high wages -
they pay high wages - it's a high-tech company, with value added, generous benefits.
it's a high-tech company, with value added, generous benefits.
And yet they're held up
to scorn, hatred, ridicule and contempt
because they've added to income inequality,
added to the concentration of wealth,
added to disparity...
-[Reich] I... -Why are they scapegoats? They're doing...
-[Reich] I... -Why are they scapegoats? They're doing... They are enacting the American dream. One of them is an immigrant.
They are enacting the American dream. One of them is an immigrant.
Let's agree that there should not be any scapegoats,
and there's nobody evil here. Let's also agree that there's a problem.
I mean, I actually really like you.
And I didn't expect to.
But you have vilified everything I've worked for all my life.
I've had four very successful small businesses.
I grew up poor in Springfield, Missouri.
Student loans, worked my ass off,
employed... I probably created 200 jobs.
OK, it's not a lot. I'm not the Koch brothers.
But I worked my ass off.
But you made me feel badly about what I've done for America.
My theory is work. Take care of yourself.
Accept responsibility for yourself, regardless of what life throws at you.
Yes, we've made it. There's no question we've made it.
My husband and I pinch each other every day
that we get to live in this lovely community.
We're able to put his kids through college.
But I think the opportunity
for employment
has become very complicated.
Today, it's hard for people to really make ends meet.
I don't feel like being 20 today
is gonna be as easy as it was when I was 20.
It's just a different time.
It's a very, very different time.
[Guadalupe] I've been working at McDonald's for four years.
I work at the drive-through window.
I get paid $12.50...
$12.55 per hour.
I make about $1,200 a month.
$900 goes straight to rent.
And I have to pay for gas
and then my phone bill.
I end up with nothing.
We barely, barely make it.
[Guadalupe] Those big corporations can pay us more.
They have the money.
Me, as a cashier at my job,
I know how much money goes in there, OK?
And that is only in a few hours.
They're open 24/7.
I sometimes have to go for the payday loan
and get a loan on my paycheck,
in order to make it on time and not get any late fees,
and try to make ends meet.
[Reich] Nobody…
Nobody should be working full-time and not making it.
Nobody in our society, the richest...
country, the richest nation in the history of the world...
should feel as...
frightened and anxious and as insecure as so many people do today.
The reality is that our system can reflect our values.
Capitalism is what we make of it.
Either the rules are going to expand opportunity
and widen the circle of prosperity,
or they're going to narrow opportunity.
[MC] The Secretary of Labor, Robert Reich.
The Secretary of the Treasury, Robert Rubin.
And the President of the United States.
I don't know whether Bill Clinton organized his economic team
so that people like me would
have a good chance to make our case,
but we'd lose a lot of our... a lot of the fights.
What I do know is that it was a tough slog.
[Clinton] ...to make economic policy...
I was fighting very hard for maintaining
the original goals of that campaign.
We wanted to do away with some of the tax subsidies
the federal government was giving corporations,
that left average people picking up the tab.
The president had pledged to end the tax break for CEO pay.
The average CEO at a major American corporation,
according to a recent Senate hearing,
is paid about 100 times as much as the average worker.
And our government today rewards that excess
with a tax break for executive pay, no matter how high it is.
That's wrong.
If companies want to overpay executives and underinvest in their future,
that's their business.
But they shouldn't get special treatment from Uncle Sam.
[Reich] There were voices, particularly in the Treasury,
who wanted a very different rule.
Bob Rubin had been the CEO of a big Wall Street bank,
and then became the Secretary of the Treasury.
He viewed the economy
and viewed America through the eyes of Wall Street.
And I remember the meeting with Rubin.
He said, "Well, why don't we make it that
you can't deduct CEO pay in excess of $1 million,
unless it's related to corporate performance?"
I said, "Wait a minute. Wait. Wait.
This has nothing to do with corporate performance.
It's to do with excessive CEO pay relative to the pay of average people.
We're not talking corporate performance. We're talking about widening inequality."
Well, I lost that one.
And because of this tax loophole,
CEO pay skyrocketed in the form of stock bonuses.
And this subsidy for executive pay
was just one example of thousands of subsidies and tax breaks
that go to corporations.
The top five oil companies receive a combined $4 billion
in tax breaks each year.
Google receives $632 million in government subsidies
to build data centers.
And the United States Department of Agriculture
spends $20 billion every year
on subsidies that go mostly to the largest producers.
These subsidies are costing taxpayers
tens of billions of dollars every year.
Some estimates put it at over 100 billion.
That's more than the cost to fund the entire Department of Education.
We have a huge system now of corporate welfare -
aid for dependent corporations,
subsidies and tax breaks that have no economic justification at all,
that are there because individual corporations
or specific industries have lobbied to get them.
It's in the tax code.
It's in appropriation bills.
It's in our trade laws.
Wherever you look, you find corporate welfare.
I began to feel, in myself, some anger...
towards people I knew in the administration
with a lot of power.
Not anger at them, personally, because they were nice people.
Not anger at them, personally, because they were nice people. I enjoyed them.
But anger at not only what they represented,
but the narrowness of their view.
It was as if Washington was an island
that was separate from the rest of the country.
The voices of average citizens
had disappeared - all but disappeared.
Another member of the Clinton administration announced today
that he's dropping out of the game entirely.
Labor Secretary Robert Reich,
who's been a central player on the President's domestic policy team,
is returning to Massachusetts to spend more time with his family.
My friends, we are on the way to becoming a two-tiered society...
composed of a few winners...
and a larger group of Americans left behind,
whose anger and whose disillusionment
is easily manipulated.
Once unbottled,
mass resentment
can poison the very fabric of society,
the moral integrity of a society,
replacing ambition with envy,
replacing tolerance with hate.
Today, the targets of that rage
are immigrants,
and welfare mothers,
and government officials,
and gays,
and an ill-defined counterculture.
But as the middle class continues to erode,
who will be the targets tomorrow?
[Reich] You can see the cumulative effect of all of this over time.
Wealth creating political power,
creating changes in the rules that enhance wealth.
It's not sustainable. It's getting worse and worse and worse.
[Brian Williams] Big trouble for millions of American homeowners,
as foreclosures across the country
are up a staggering 87%.
The number of Americans either behind on their mortgage payments
or in foreclosure rose to record levels in the third quarter.
Those mortgages made to borrowers
Those mortgages made to borrowers with poor credit histories are called sub-prime loans.
are called sub-prime loans.
And the explosive growth in this kind of lending in the past few years
is now having a devastating impact.
We are briefly interrupting regular programming
We are briefly interrupting regular programming with the latest on a wild day today on Wall Street
in which the stock market officially crashed.
[newscaster] Now, three of the top five Wall Street institutions are gone,
leaving many to wonder whether Americans can trust the system
to keep their money safe.
So, what happened in the 2000s?
Well, Wall Street went amok.
I mean, completely crazy.
They're gambling with people's deposits.
They're... They're gambling with the entire economy.
These are not aberrations. This is not an accident.
Since the Reagan administration,
there's been a systematic changing of the rules of our financial system -
always billed as deregulation
that would get government out of our free market.
Government, with its high taxes, excessive spending,
and over-regulation,
has thrown a wrench in the works of our free markets.
[Reich] Then in 1998,
Wall Street devised new complex financial instruments
to maximize their profits,
known as "derivatives".
Despite warnings, these went unregulated.
[interviewer] What are you trying to protect?
We're trying to protect the money of the American public,
which is at risk in these markets.
[Reich] And then, in 1999,
Clinton did away with the Glass-Steagall Act.
We're here today to repeal Glass-Steagall because we've learned that government is not the answer.
because we've learned that government is not the answer.
We have learned that freedom and competition are the answers.
[Reich] The Glass-Steagall Act was a 1930s law designed to protect people's savings
from being used by Wall Street speculators.
But now, with no laws in place
to keep risky investment banks from merging with commercial banks,
or controlled derivatives,
we ushered in too-big-to-fail mega banks,
that led to the stock market crash.
There's this fiction that somehow you have
regulation or deregulation.
You don't have regulation or deregulation.
The question is, what regulation do you have?
You allowed commercial and investment banks to get together
and then what happened is you have a new kind of regulation.
It's called "bailouts".
Good evening and even congratulations.
You are now the proud owner of a massive insurance company.
American taxpayers woke up this morning
to learn their money makes up most of a bailout package
the Federal Reserve slammed together
to save a huge insurance conglomerate called "AIG".
[newscaster #2] The rescue of Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae,
[newscaster #2] The rescue of Bear Stearns, Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac and AIG
puts an extra $314 billion of taxpayer money at risk.
[Savannah Guthrie] The administration and Congress are hammering out the details
for what would be the largest financial bailout in US history.
This is a big package, because it was a big problem.
We're not getting rid of government. That's the point.
We're not getting rid of government. That's the point. Government will still be involved.
The question is, how is government going to be involved?
Is government going to be involved in terms of keeping banks relatively small and tame,
in terms of keeping banks relatively small and tame,
or is government going to be involved in dealing with the consequences,
from homeowners and everybody else sweeping up the mess?
In other words, it's not government versus no government.
It's... what are the government rules going to be?
[Victoria Dzorka] I received my diagnosis in January of this year.
After receiving an infection abroad, I came home and was treated for that.
And while in the hospital, they discovered that I had cancer.
I have a couple of different medications for nausea.
There are two specific ones that I take on days two and three after chemo.
I get a steroid when I'm in the hospital to get me through the treatment,
an antibiotic,
and another that helps me sleep,
because I get kind of a weird vertigo
during a certain point of my treatment cycle.
Even with the insurance provider that I have,
I was informed that they no longer cover chemo drugs fully.
And so we were told by a medical social worker
that we could potentially receive a bill for thousands of dollars.
With the four drugs that I take for chemotherapy,
the total comes out to about $3,000 a month,
per treatment.
So, for me, that's about three months of income...
just for... Just for one round of treatment.
What is the alternative to receiving your chemotherapy drugs?
There isn't one.
So whatever the cost is, you have to pay it.
You and I and everybody else in this country,
pays more for pharmaceuticals...
than any citizens of any advanced nation.
Why is it that we pay so much?
It has to do with the way in which pharmaceutical companies
have got laws and rules that protect them.
And that gives them huge market power.
And it also gives them huge political power.
And that political power is being exercised in all kinds of ways
to tilt the market in their direction.
In June of 2003,
the Medicare Modernization Act came up for vote in the House.
This will be a 15-minute vote.
[Reich] It was a bill that was ostensibly intended
to help seniors pay for prescription drugs.
But it would also bar the government from interfering with negotiations
between manufacturers and pharmacies
and prescription drug plan sponsors.
In other words,
it would prevent the government, with its huge purchasing power,
from negotiating cheaper prices for drugs.
So, as new drugs hit the market,
patients would have no choice
but to pay the costs set by the drug companies.
The bill was over a thousand pages.
And it was rushed to a vote in the House at 3:00 a.m. the next morning.
We had leaders going around
and gathering around individuals and trying to twist their arms
and gathering around individuals and trying to twist their arms to get them to change their vote.
[Burton] I think a lot of the shenanigans that were going on,
they didn't want on national TV in prime time.
On this vote, the ayes are 220, and the nays are 215.
-The conference report is agreed to. -[loud cheering]
Without objection, the motion to reconsider is laid upon the table.
[Reich] This is a piece of legislation
that's hailed as a move toward a free market.
But it's actually a government regulation
that benefits only a few at the top.
Similar manipulations of the rules of our economy
are happening across our major industries.
Americans pay more for Internet service
than citizens of any other industrialized nation,
and have some of the slowest speeds.
Because cable companies have enough political power
to stifle competition.
We're paying more for airline tickets,
because airlines have merged into just four major carriers
that barely have to compete with each other.
We pay more for health insurance as health insurers consolidate.
So, in every way, you see, they're using their political power,
and that means you and I and every other American
are paying more.
How do these industries manage to get rules that benefit them?
It's no mystery.
Campaign contributions buy access to government officials.
Well-funded public relations firms, think tanks and research institutes
produce reports to promote those views
and sometimes even draft the laws they want passed.
The tunes of lawyers argue on their behalf
in courts and regulatory proceedings in Washington.
Finally, there's the revolving door.
In the 1970s,
In the 1970s, about 3% of outgoing members of Congress
became lobbyists.
In recent years,
42% of retiring representatives
and half of all retiring senators
have turned to lobbying.
Lobbying has been going on since America's founding.
What has changed is the magnitude of corporate lobbying
versus any other interests.
It's gone from a cottage industry
to an influence industrial complex.
Today, corporate interests spend $34 for every $1 dollar spent by unions
for every $1 dollar spent by unions and all public interest groups combined.
In 2016,
they spent a total of $3.15 billion on lobbying.
That's the equivalent of $5.9 million per member of Congress.
[Darvin] I'm kind of independent.
At times, I see both parties...
doing some stuff that I don't think...
that's what they were elected to do.
They don't care about the promises they made to the people.
They care about the promises they made to their backers.
They give them the money.
Most of us out here...
I don't contribute much to the political deals, you know?
Because...
I'll vote for you.
If I vote for you, that's all I should have to do.
I don't have to buy your loyalty to me.
Their money is their voice.
Why, excuse me, but where did I miss that?
Money is used to purchase something,
not as a voice.
You know? So what are they purchasing?
They are purchasing the influence of politicians.
[Dave Brat] Do you feel that you are truly represented in Washington?
Do you feel that this country is headed in the right direction?
No one does.
That's why I'm running for Congress.
My name is Dave Brat
and I'm a lifelong Republican and conservative.
I'm ready to take economics and ethics to Washington.
-Congressman. -Hey, Bob. Nice to see you.
Good to see you. Thanks for coming in.
Well, I appreciate you taking the time. Seriously.
I know you're in the middle of a campaign and this is an imposition.
-No, it's not. Pleasure to meet you. -It's great to meet you, too.
-I have a lot to talk to you about. -Great.
The Conservative Review...
has given you an award...
for being one of the two most conservative Republicans
out of 247 Republicans in Congress.
Yep.
-You use the term "crony capitalism"... -Yeah. Yep.
What do you mean by "crony capitalism"?
The big folks get together, no matter what industry,
protect their turf, at the expense of the small guy.
The government's job is to make sure that doesn't happen.
Instead, the government's job has turned into,
they make that happen.
I mean...
I'm not against business.
But I'm against this crony business
that takes advantage of the taxpayer.
I do think it's coming. People--
The intuition right now is clear. Something is wrong.
All over the country. Right, left, everybody.
Something is way off.
The old assumption has been that division is Democrat versus Republican.
That's fading.
But what we are beginning to see is that
it's actually anti-establishment versus establishment.
Yep.
It's people who don't want the big money and the crony capitalism
versus the crony capitalists.
Democrats, Republicans, conservatives, liberals...
There's gonna be disagreement on a lot of stuff.
But if you could come together on these fundamentals...
It's fine with me.
You're at a deeper level.
You've been teaching economics and all that for 30 years.
I used to use your book.
-Youused to use my book? -Yeah.
-I used to-- -Can we just make--
-I have a book out, too. -Can we get that again?
Congressman, what do you think of the title?
Yeah, it surprised me a bit coming from you, but in a pleasant way.
I think you and I are united. We could do this in the right way.
Ethics and capitalism together,
and we'll save the country.
-Congressman, thank you. -Thank you very much.
[Reich] Everything fundamentally comes down to American democracy.
Is it working for most people?
Or is it working for a very small number?
Researchers at Princeton and Northwestern University
wanted to find out how much political power
ordinary citizens have.
They examined a 20-year period,
from 1982 to 2002.
They first discovered that if large corporations and wealthy individuals,
regardless of political party,
want a law passed,
there's nearly a 60% chance it will be passed.
And if they don't want a certain law,
it doesn't pass.
Then they looked at everyday voters.
Issues that almost no one supports
having 30% chance of becoming law.
Issues that almost everyone supports
also have a 30% chance of becoming law.
They concluded, in their own words....
"The preferences of the average American
appear to have only a miniscule -
near zero -
statistically non-significant impact upon public policy."
I'm always struck by how close you can come,
as just an average American, to the White House.
But,
your voice can't really reach the decision-makers in the White House.
Over the last 50 years,
Washington has become an Emerald City.
It's capital money.
Money that is there for only one purpose,
and that is to influence outcomes.
It's apparent to me that certain judges are alleging
that somehow corporations have the same rights as citizens.
I don't accept that premise.
The US Supreme Court today overturned laws on the books
for nearly a century,
and ruled that corporations can spend freely now
on political campaigns.
What's the point in individual people
trying to influence politics with their donations
if Exxon or some other company
can quite literally match, and therefore, cancel out,
the combined donations of every single individual donor in the nation?
The cacophony now...
of special interests...
with...
with...
megaphones larger than you've ever seen in your life,
will drown out...
the voice of the people.
The bottom line is this.
The Supreme Court has just predetermined the winners
of next November's elections.
It won't be Republicans.
It won't be Democrats.
It will be corporate America.
[crowd chanting] Whose streets? Our streets!
[crowd chanting] Whose streets? Our streets! Whose streets? Our streets!
Whose streets? Our streets!
Whose streets? Our streets!
[reporter #4] There was a giant show of support
for the "Occupy Wall Street" movement on Wednesday.
Approximately 10,000 people marched through lower Manhattan.
[chanting] We got sold out!
The truth is, many of the reasons they're hitting the streets
are similar to the reasons the Tea Partiers began their protest:
crony capitalism, bailouts to big business.
[newscaster #3] Washington should listen to their message because it is similar
[newscaster #3] Washington should listen to their message because it is similar to the Tea Party's message.
That is crony capitalism needs to stop.
[chanting] We have a voice!
We have a voice!
They're spending our children's money, our grandchildren's money.
They're just going to continue to push the country into debt.
They're gonna destroy the economy of America.
This country is upside down.
It's not working for 99% of our society anymore.
The 1% keep getting richer and everyone else is getting poorer and poorer.
[protestor] It seems to me that the blame has to be placed on both parties.
And it's time we sent a clear message to them.
You either stop railroading our people and our country,
or we're gonna throw all you bums out.
[Megyn Kelly] It is 9:00 p.m. on the East Coast.
And the moment of truth has arrived.
Welcome to the first debate night of the 2016 presidential campaign
live from Quicken Loans Arena.
[Bret Baier] Mr. Trump, you have also donated to several Democratic candidates.
You explained away those donations,
saying you did that to get business-related favors.
You said recently, quote,
"When you give, they do whatever the hell you want them to do."
[Trump] You'd better believe it.
-It's true. -[Bret Baier] What did they do?
I will tell you that our system is broken.
I gave to many people.
Before this, two months ago, I was a businessman.
I give to everybody. When they call, I give.
And you know what?
When I need something from them two, three years later, I call them.
They are there for me.
-What did you get? -That's a broken system.
I've never heard a candidate, never,
who's received huge amounts of money from oil,
from coal, from Wall Street,
from the military industrial complex...
Not one candidate.
"All these campaign contributions will not influence me.
I'm gonna be independent."
But why do they make millions of dollars of campaign contributions?
They expect something. Everybody knows that.
You've received millions of dollars in contributions and speaking fees
You've received millions of dollars in contributions and speaking fees from Wall Street companies.
How do you convince voters that you're gonna level the playing field
when you're indebted to its biggest players?
Well, I think it's pretty clear that they know that I will.
You've got two billionaire hedge fund managers...
[woman] They want to hear your thoughts on Donald.
Oh, yeah.
Trump.
Brutally honest?
[woman] Go for it. Yeah!
I think he's a great businessman.
I think this country needs a businessman's standpoint.
[woman] Yeah? -Do you know, he's against the union? -A lot of people...
Yeah, I do. I do.
A lot of people don't like...
like to hear it, but I think that's what this country needs.
A businessman.
-Not a politician. -There you go.
I'm totally thinking that
we're being led too much by politics.
-"Politics"... -Yes.
...instead of running this country like a business.
But Donald Trump... Just... It's a joke. He makes it into a joke.
But Donald Trump... Just... It's a joke. He makes it into a joke. -I agree but-- -We're a joke in other countries.
-I agree but-- -We're a joke in other countries.
-He addresses a lot of the issues... -[Darvin] The anger.
-...that are on.... -[woman] The anger.
Anger or issues.
It's anger. It's anger. He's...
He's using the people's anger over the way government is operated.
And why do you think he's getting the reaction that he's getting?
It's because he's saying stuff that people are thinking.
-[woman] Oh, yeah. -He's getting the reaction of the people.
[Darvin] That's the same thing with Bernie.
-Bernie's saying... -[man #2] Exactly.
That's why I like Bernie.
-And I like Trump. I'm torn. -[woman] I know.
Bernie is a smart, intelligent man.
Bernie is my man.
So it's not Republican - Democrat.
-[woman] No! -[Darvin] No, it's both.
-It is. So... -[woman] Both of them.
If it was up to me, I would say, "Hey, let's get a fresh stack of...
people that we can put in office." I don't like any of them now.
-[Darvin] Re-elect nobody. -Huh?
-[Darvin] Re-elect nobody. -[man #3] There you go!
[woman] Elect Willie Nelson.
Populism is a reaction against those in power
in favor of the broad public.
But populism, let me hasten to say,
has two very different faces...
Donald Trump and Bernie Sanders.
But to be more general about it,
when people are angry and frustrated and afraid,
and they feel economically insecure,
they tend to either move toward authoritarian populism
which is, "Give me the strong man
who's going to fix everything on behalf of the people."
But it's anti-Democratic
and often uses scapegoating
as a way to generate greater and greater support.
Or, alternatively,
populism can take the form of reform.
That is "We're gonna rebuild the system.
We're going to create a very, very different system
that is much more reflective of the people's needs."
So populism is not necessarily good.
It depends...
on what form it takes.
Faith in our major institutions
has plummeted over the last 30 years.
And this is dangerous.
Because if people don't trust that our society
is working for most people...
then they are very vulnerable.
We're at a critical turning point in this country.
And we're either going to go toward authoritarian populism...
over the long-term,
or we're going to go in the direction of a democratic...
a fundamental democratic change.
A democracy is a very fragile thing.
The other day, I was going through the airport. Somebody came up to me - a complete stranger.
Somebody came up to me - a complete stranger. She said to me,
"So, what are we gonna do?"
I said, "I don't know."
And then other people in other airports and other places,
they come up and say,
"Can you believe it?"
The way we get our economy back...
really is about the way we get our democracy back.
And that is getting together
and creating institutions
that countervail the power of the biggest corporations,
and the biggest banks and the wealthiest people.
Citizenship is more than just voting and jury duty and paying taxes.
Citizenship really is participating and engaging
Citizenship really is participating and engaging and making a ruckus when a ruckus is necessary.
and making a ruckus when a ruckus is necessary.
It's all of our responsibilities to make sure for ourselves,
but also for our children and grandchildren...
that we make this thing work.
Thank you.
Thank you for coming tonight. Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you.
I stay positive,
first, because I know American history.
I know that every time capitalism gets off the rails,
our instinct in this country is to put it back on the rails.
We are seeing the same kind of concentrated income and wealth,
the same kind of political corruption.
We saw the same thing in the 1880s and 1890s.
And the rules added to the wealth.
You saw a similar kind of vicious cycle to the vicious cycle we have now.
People became so angry.
And that anger was channeled in a positive direction.
People organized themselves
and changed the organization of the political economic system.
The first major antitrust legislation was passed,
which broke up huge monopolies.
And then President Teddy Roosevelt
signed a law that prohibited
corporate donations to political campaigns.
We don't succumb,
as other countries have,
to fascism or communism.
We are much more pragmatic than that.
And I think we'll do it again.
[Reich] I'm also optimistic because I teach.
I surround myself every day with young people.
And I see in young people today
a huge yearning,
a huge dedication to making the system work.
It's a time of great, great opportunity
and great, great danger.
Some of you, and I don't know who it is,
and I don't know how many of you...
will be part of the solution.
Some of you will be leaders.
Does everyone have a seat? I can't...
This is the most extraordinary...
historic period I've lived through.
And I'm old enough to have lived through a number.
This summer marks the 50th year for me
that I've been involved in and out of government.
And so it's a little bit humbling
to think that it's been 50 years,
and we're in deeper shit...
...than we were then.
If you've got young people who don't have the experience
of a system that is actually working,
then where do they get their idealism from?
Where is the next generation going to draw its...
strength from?
[student] I wouldn't say that American history has had a golden age and we've passed it.
But I do think that at least there was a sense that we were better together.
A sense of shared identity. I don't think that exists so much anymore.
Certainly, there are moments of despair and hopelessness
and the sense that, like, all of this is for nothing.
So, like, that... That comes, too.
But you have to believe things will get better.
Or...
Or you'll just always be living in hopelessness.
But it's also an opportunity because people are also getting more aware and more understanding of the challenges,
because people are also getting more aware and more understanding of the challenges,
and that's mobilizing people, also,
into making people act and reflect on and...
participate in politics.
So, it's... It's hope.
I wish, with hindsight,
that when I had had the opportunity...
in government...
I wished I had pushed harder.
But at the time, I thought I was pushing as hard as I could.
As hard as I dared.
It's now up to the next generation.
[Reich] All social change occurs
when people become aware of a tension
between the ideal that they carry around in their heads
about how the system really ought to work,
and the reality they see around them.
And when that tension becomes too great,
that dissonance becomes too intense,
they are willing to take action.
[crowd chanting] Affordable care!
-We want it now! -We want it now!
[Guadalupe] It's getting a bit better because we are doing something
to make a change.
I've been fighting for $15 in the union for about three-and-a-half years.
What do we want?
$15 in the union!
When do we want it?
[crowd] Now!
My friends, this is about power.
It's about reclaiming our democracy and reclaiming our economy.
This is a huge victory. I feel very proud.
Because now the rest of the nation is looking at us.
And they're seeing that $15 per hour...
It's achievable.
We can do it.
We're getting hardened on how to organize.
When they start trying to discredit you, and belittle you,
you know you're making an impact.
[Victoria] My question is, how can I be sure that you will advocate for me as your constituent,
how can I be sure that you will advocate for me as your constituent,
and can you guarantee for me quality affordable healthcare, at age 26,
and can you guarantee for me quality affordable healthcare, at age 26, with a pre-existing condition, as I live below the poverty level?
with a pre-existing condition, as I live below the poverty level?
It's Office Hours Live.
A lot of people who, until now, have said, "Well, politics is out there,
politics is for other people",
are now understanding that they can't sit back.
The people in control
have reason and means to keep us in separate groups
and keep us angry at each other.
The strength you have is in numbers.
-[group] Right. -It's not just in guts.
[woman #2] That's right.
I ask you all to take five minutes out of your day
and make at least one phone call to your congressperson,
one phone call to your senator,
and I guarantee you,
that if we continue doing so, we will succeed.
[chanting] Do your job! Do your job!
Do your job! Do your job!
[Reich] The only way forward to a system that works for the majority of us,
is to get organized
and politically active.
[Reich] The moneyed interests are doing what they do best -
making money.
[Reich] The rest of us need to do what we can do best...
Use our voices.
Our vigor.
And our votes.
It's up to us to change the rules.
If you're gonna be a citizen activist, three things...
Number one, you've got to be tenacious and patient.
Social change does not happen quickly.
Number two,
talk to people who disagree with you.
Get out of your bubble.
Maybe they will convince you that you are wrong,
or you'll convince them that they are wrong.
But you've got to talk to them!
-[woman on phone] Please hurry. -San Bernardino City PD with a transfer.
-[woman on phone] Please hurry. -San Bernardino City PD with a transfer. 1051 East Jackson Street. Subject at the bottom of the pool.
1051 East Jackson Street. Subject at the bottom of the pool.
[woman] Rodney King. Please. It’s Rodney King. Please hurry!
[operator] Okay, stay, stay on the-- Ma’am, stay on the line.
Let me transfer to the fire department.
[woman] Please. Please. Oh, my God!
[operator] Is he breathing?
[woman] No, he’s at the bottom of the swimming pool!
Please get here. I’ve been throwing stuff to try to wake him up!
Rodney Glen King. He’s at the bottom of the swimming pool.
Please hurry up. Please hurry up. Please hurry up. Please hurry up. Please hurry up.
♪ Fuck Rodney King... in the ass ♪
♪ When I see the motherfucker I’ma blast ♪
♪ Boom, boom in his head Boom in his back ♪
♪ Yeah, just like that ♪
♪ ’Cause I’m tired of these Good little niggas runnin’ around here ♪
♪ Talkin’ about increase the peace And let the violence cease ♪
♪ When the black man built this country But can’t get his because of what? ♪
♪ That’s right, the prejudiced honky ♪
♪ So fuck you, Rodney King ♪
♪ Nigga ♪
♪ You a goddamn sellout ♪
♪ Look at you on TV, cryin’ for the cops Who beat the hell out you ♪
♪ I wish they would have shot you ♪
♪ ’Cause this shit is deeper than Vietnam And there’s no room for the Uncle Tom ♪
♪ You let these white people mess you up And then they dress you up ♪
♪ And I would not be surprised If they sexed you up ♪
♪ Because you look like a faggot ♪
Oh, excuse me. Gay.
♪ Runnin’ around here sayin’ everything White people want you to say ♪
♪ Fuck you, Rodney King! ♪
Wow, Rodney.
Wow, brother man, no wonder you never go outside
without wearing your bulletproof vest.
’Cause not only do the white supremacists wanna assassinate you,
there’s at least one Afrocentric, homophobic rapper
who wants a piece of you, too.
But they’re all gonna have to wait their time in line, right...
behind the boys in blue?
So what you wanna do, Rodney King? Reminisce? Come on. [chuckles]
It goes a little bit something like this.
1991, ’92.
Come on, Rodney King. You know what to do.
It was a Saturday night, right?
And you were chillin’ at your boy’s crib, right? Watchin’ a fight, right?
No, wait a minute. Hold up. No. Mnh-mnh.
That’s wrong. No, the basketball game was on.
And you were hitting that Olde English 800 malt liquor.
Forty ounce.
Times 40 times 40 times 40 times 40 times 40 times 40.
And you were never that good at math.
Oh, no.
You couldn’t stay up all night workin’ on your time table.
No, you weren’t able.
’Cause at 2:00 a.m., you were mopping the floors of Altadena, California.
With your brother and your pops and them.
King Maintenance, the family bidness.
And they called your father what? Oh, yeah, that’s right. [chuckles]
The Kingfish. And he taught you how to mop the floor.
“That’s it, son. Just like this.”
And he also taught you how to fish.
“That’s it, son. Throw out your line. Now reel in your catch.”
And he also taught you how to go fetch that electric cord--
oh, Lord, you know the one-- he used to beat your black ass with.
But it’s Saturday night, right? [chuckles]
And you got a job to go to on Monday morning, so you gonna celebrate.
Hard hat construction, ’cause that’s what you into.
Right, Rodney? Con-struction, not de-struction.
You did your two-year bid, right, kid?
You did your two-year bid?
You remember that day out at Marina delRey?
You caught a halibut, but the halibut got snatched by a rat.
You got pissed off behind that, ’cause you had to drive home.
10 Freeway eastbound, fish-less.
And you stopped inconveniently into a convenience store
to negotiate some food stamps,
and the proprietor of said convenience store
said that you had attacked him with a tire iron.
But if you read your autobiography, entitled Rodney King: The Riot Within,
you will see that the proprietor was lying.
It was he who attacked you with a tire iron.
You attacked him with nothing more dangerous
than a Hostess apple pie.
Assault with a deadly apple pie.
That’s an all-American offense.
Now, you copped a plea, but it was no bargain.
You did your two-year bid, right, kid?
But it was cool, ’cause on your same cellblock
is none other than Mr. Ike Turner.
Tina-less.
And he has two white pet rats that he incessantly pets.
He calls them his Ikettes.
And when they release you on the work release,
they release you to work up at the Stanislaus National Forest.
Best shape of your life, right, putting out those forest fires?
And that’s how you wanted to be remembered, right, Rodney?
As a brother who put out the forest fires,
not as the nigga who threw the gasoline on it.
But it’s Saturday night, right?
And you got a job to go to on Monday morning, so you wanna celebrate.
You gonna hit that Olde English 40 time 40 time 40 time 40.
You gonna step outside with your boys. You gonna take a little joyride.
So you step into the ride. [chuckles]
It’s a white Hyundai.
You know what they say about a white Hyundai.
If you gonna get into a high-speed chase
with the Los Angeles Police Department and the California Highway Patrol,
you might not wanna do it in a white Hyundai.
But you get into the ride, right? You gonna throw down.
You turn up the sound. What you listening to?
Public Enemy? Oh, no, come on.
What you listening to? NWA, “Fuck the Police”? Come on.
You from LA. To listen to the NWA, that would be a cliché.
No, you listenin’ to De La Soul.
♪ On a roll Black medallions, no gold ♪
♪ Hangin’ out wit Pos Hangin’ out with Mase ♪
♪ Buddy, buddy, buddy all in my face ♪
“Turn it down, Glen.”
That’s what they call you, your family and friend. They call you Glen.
Rodney King had not yet been invented. You were Glen then.
“Turn it down, Glen.” But you’re not gonna turn it down. No.
’Cause you been hitting that Olde English 40 time 40 time 40.
You gonna turn it up, right? And you gonna hit that accelerator.
Forty, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90.
They said you were going 115 miles per hour in a white Hyundai.
[laughs] Oh, yeah.
“Slow down, Glen.” But you’re not gonna slow down. Oh, no.
Slow down? You’re not gonna slow down.
You been hittin’ that 40 time 40 time 40 time 40 time 40.
And you look into the rearview. Whoo!
There’s that familiar red and blue, blue, blue, blue.
You’re a young African-American male.
You should know what to do, do, do, do, do, do.
Pull over without fail, ’cause if you don’t pull over without fail,
you gonna go live and direct to jail,
but it’s a three-strike system, and you got two strikes on ya.
So ya might as well go down swinging, right?
[inhales] “Pull over, Glen.” You gonna pull over, right?
210 Freeway.
Westbound, listenin’ to that De La Soul sound. Whoo, whoo, whoo.
LAPD helicopter illuminating the way,
’cause that’s how you live and die in LA, right?
“Pull over, Glen. Pull over, Glen.” You gonna pull over?
You know exactly which off-ramp to take.
The one that your father, the Kingfish, used to take
when he took you to fish at the Hansen Dam Lake.
That’s where he taught you how to fish, taught you how to swim,
up at the Devil’s Gate Reservoir.
Up above Altadena, California. Whoo, it was nice that day.
Whoo! Ten toes in cool mud. Didn’t matter if you was Crip or if you was a Blood.
Right, Rodney? Whoo, whoo, whoo.
“Pull over, Glen.” Whoo, whoo, whoo. “Pull over, Glen.”
You gonna pull over, you gonna pull over, you gonna pull over, right?
You gonna pull over in front of an apartment complex.
Not that difficult, really,
to try to understand why you pulled over in front of an apartment complex.
Actually, it’s rather simple.
’Cause if something were to go down and you’re gonna go down, Rodney, Glen,
Glen, Rodney, Rodney.
Rodney, have you met Glen? Glen, meet Rodney.
If anything were to go down, somebody might see it.
So you pull over and your two partners are compliant.
They are immediately cuffed, but you’ve got to be defiant.
You gotta be rough, you gotta be tough,
because you been hittin’ that Olde English 40
time 40 time 40 time 40 time 40.
You step outside the ride, and you see the helicopter.
Oh, yeah, and you flip it off.
And then you point to your backside as if to say “kiss it,”
and then you’re introduced to LAPD Sergeant Stacey Koon--
good name, Koon-- and his metal baton.
He quotes Marvin Gaye.
He would say, “Let’s get it”--
-One. -[blows landing]
Two, three, four.
Eleven. You were never that good at math.
Fifteen.
You’re spittin’ blood.
Spittin’ blood.
Spittin’ blood like that great white whale from that great white novel
by that great white novelist, but you never took AP English.
Nineteen.
Time for the stun gun.
Fifty thousand volts of electricity mixing up with all that blood.
Not a great combination.
Twenty-nine, 30, 31, 32.
Five-hour operation to sew you back up again.
Right, Rodney?
They had to put a metal plate behind your right eye.
Why? So the metal-- eye did not slip back into your brain.
Here it goes again.
Thirty-nine, 40. -Forty-five. -[blow lands]
They said you lost more blood that night, right,
than any man had ever lost and still lived.
Forty-nine, fitty, fitty-one, fitty-two.
This is the power stroke.
They teach this at the academy just for occasions like this.
They had to put a metal plate behind your right eye.
Why?
So the right eye didn’t slip back into your brain.
Here we go again.
Let’s round it off, why don’t we...
at a nice, even...
fitty-six.
You’re spittin’ blood.
You’re spittin’ blood.
Somebody produces a white sheet.
Cover you up with it.
Now, where would the LAPD come up with a white sheet?
Why would the LAPD be rollin’ around with a white sheet?
They throw it on you.
They throw you in the back of the squad car.
Do they take you to the emergency room? Oh, no.
They take you live and direct to the police station.
Foothill Division.
Then they pull the sheet off of you and they point at you
as if to say, “Look what we got. Look what we caught.”
You were like that deer in that movie The Deer Hunter,
strapped down on top of that station wagon,
rolling through the Pennsylvania woods.
Right, Rodney?
And then they put the sheet back on you, right, Rodney?
And you figure you’re dead, right, Rodney?
You’re dead.
You’re dead. You gone to heaven.
Because they pulled the sheet off of you, and you look up,
and there’s God.
A beautiful black woman in a white nurse’s uniform.
And she says to you real sweet, real soft, on the QT,
“Don’t you worry none, Mr. Brother King...
they got it all on videotape.”
Jorge-- George Holliday...
he was on his veranda.
He’s an Argentinean plumber, and he had his new videocam.
He said, “Damn. Coño.
All these lights look like a movie show. Apocalypse Now.”
And he got ya. Right, Rodney? He caught ya.
He got ya, he caught ya,
and he tried to take the videotape live and direct to the LAPD.
They said, “We can’t use it.”
But then he took the videotape live and direct
to TV station KTLA.
They said, “Yes, we can use it.”
And before you know it, Rodney King...
you’re on heavy rotation locally.
You’re on heavy rotation nationally.
You’re on heavy rotation internationally.
Everyone all over the world is rewinding you
and fast-forwarding you and freeze-framing you,
and before you know it, Rodney King,
you’ve gone viral before viral was viral,
and before you know it, Rodney King, you’re the first reality TV star.
That was March 3, 1991.
Let’s fast-forward, why don’t we?
April 29, 1992.
Come on, Rodney King, you know what to do.
Simi Valley, all-white jury.
You hear this weird kind of...
echoing refrain echoing in your brain.
Damaged brain. Not guilty.
Not guilty, not guilty.
Not guilty.
And you wonder why you even showed up in the court in the first place.
Your own lawyers didn’t allow you to testify.
Oh, no, they didn’t think that it would be strategic
for a 6-foot-2-inch, 225-pound black man to stand up in front of an all-white jury
and testify against the officers who beat the shit out of him.
So they gagged you.
So why did you even show up
in the courtroom in the first place on that day?
You could’ve taken in a lovely matinee that day...
at the Simi Valley Community Theater,
where they were playing a lovely play that day called Driving Miss Daisy.
Or you could’ve taken in a lovely afternoon
at the Ronald Reagan Presidential Li--
brary, right, Rodney?
But instead, you’re standing there,
and it’s not guilty, not guilty, not guilty, not guilty.
“Let it go, son. Let it go, Glen.”
Your mother.
“Let it go, son. Let it go, Glen.”
A devout Jehovah’s Witness.
You went with her, didn’t you, as a small child.
Knocking on doors, passing out pamphlets.
You were part of a multiracial, door-knocking coalition.
And now it’s, “Let it go, son. Let it go, Glen.”
And so you let it go. You went home.
And your brother, bless him, has lit a tiki lamp in the backyard,
but you prefer to be inside...
in a four-cornered room, dark, illuminated only by--
a TV set.
And at your side, your trusted companion.
Her name, brandy.
And you tune in the TV just in time to catch the live helicopter report
from the sacred intersection of Florence and Normandie.
Brandy.
And fuck.
There’s a cat being pulled out of his truck and thrown to the pavement.
And a man is standing over him, and he’s got a cinder block in his hand.
-And... -[blow lands]
The man’s head explodes as if it were a watermelon.
Then another man does a weird kind of...
victory dance on top of the would-be corpse.
Brandy.
And another black man is watching the same TV show, right, Rodney?
He turns it off. [mimics TV turning off]
Says “Hell no.”
He runs out of his crib right straight out to the scene.
His name, Bobby Green.
He extends his hand to the once white, now red man...
and says, “I too am a trucker.
And I’m gonna get you outta here right now, motherfucker.”
And he throws him over the back of his broad black back
and throws him back into the cab of his truck,
and then, fuck, he’s got the truck in gear.
And it’s Florence Avenue westbound past Crenshaw,
left on Prairie, aka the Avenue of Champions,
and an immediate right turn
into the Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital emergency parking lot.
He got him there just in time.
If he had delayed just a minute,
he might as well have made a left turn on Prairie into the Inglewood Mortuary.
Brandy.
And you’re watching the coverage that night, right, Rodney?
You’re watching the coverage that night, right?
And that once white, now red man has been identified as Reginald Denny.
Brandy.
And you’re thinking, right, Rodney?
You’re thinking you know him.
Reginald Denny, you know him.
He had delivered a load of gravel one night
to this construction site where you were working,
and y’all kicked it.
Y’all were cool. Y’all had jokes.
And now Reggie Denny is...
Brandy.
Fidel Lopez. Sí, yes.
They really got artistic on his ass.
First they gave him a...
van Gogh.
They cut off his ear.
And then they gave him a “Negro.” They spray-painted his genitals black.
And another black man dressed in black, holding a black Bible,
stepped out of the blackness.
The Reverend Bennie Newton.
He said to the assembled crowd rather loud,
“Hey, if y’all kill him, y’all gotta kill me first!”
And he saved Fidel Lopez.
¿Sí? Yes.
They reattached his ear. You hear?
Brandy.
Do you see the old man...
Rodney?
Brandy.
Do you see the old man on your TV screen? Can you hear what he’s saying?
The old black man walking up and down the street.
Can you hear what he’s saying? Turn up the volume, Rodney.
Turn up the volume, Rodney. Pump up the volume, pump up the volume.
Listen to what the man is saying.
“Y’all wrong.”
Can you hear him, Rodney?
“Y’all wrong. Y’all burnt me out.
Y’all burnt out my bidness.
Y’all talkin’ ’bout Black Power, and y’all burnt out my black bidness.
I come from the ghetto, too.
Somebody stole my computer!
Somebody stole my computer!”
Brandy.
So who’s gonna come to his rescue, Rodney?
Everybody’s out there talkin’ about
“No justice, no peace” and “Fuck the police”
and “This is for you, Rodney K. This is for you, Rodney K.”
Right, Rodney?
“This is for you, Rodney K.”
So...
you can’t let it go.
Oh, hell no, you turn off the TV show.
And you reach for the brandy. You kill it.
Then you go to the closet
to get that red, green and gold tam with the dreadlocks attached.
You know, the one that you wore last Halloween
when you went trick-or-treating as Bob Marley?
Trick or treat, mon. Trick or treat, mon.
You put it on your head, right?
Right, Rodney?
You go outside. You gonna step into the ride.
You gonna drive straight into the middle of the conflagration,
listenin’ to that Rastaman vibration.
Right, Rodney?
Turn it up.
Turn up the power...
Rodney.
♪ This morning ♪
♪ I woke up ♪
♪ In a curfew ♪
110 Freeway, southbound.
♪ Oh, God ♪
♪ I was a prisoner, too ♪
The brandy is kicking in, right?
♪ Could not recognize the faces Standing over me ♪
The palm trees are on fire.
♪ They were all dressed in uniforms ♪
♪ Of brutality ♪
Washington Boulevard off-ramp. Jefferson Boulevard off-ramp.
♪ How many rivers do we have to cross ♪
Martin Luther King Boulevard off-ramp. Welcome to the ghetto.
♪ Before we can talk ♪
♪ To the boss? ♪
The bougainvillea on fire.
♪ All that we had it seems we have ♪
♪ Lost ♪
Gage off-ramp. Slauson off-ramp.
♪ We must have really paid the cost ♪
♪ And that’s why we’re gonna keep on ♪
♪ Burning and lootin’ tonight ♪
The jacaranda on fire.
♪ Burning all pollution tonight ♪
And it’s Florence Boulevard off-ramp, westbound.
♪ Burning all pollution tonight ♪
Florence and Vermont.
Florence and...
Hoover.
♪ Burning all illusions tonight ♪
Florence and Normandie.
And everyone’s chanting, “No justice, no peace” and “Fuck the police”
and “This is for you, Rodney K.
This is for you, Rodney K. This is for you, Rodney K.”
But they have no idea that Rodney K is sittin’ right there
in the middle of the intersection in a white Hyundai,
in a red, green and gold tam with dreadlocks attached,
incog-Negro.
But it’s not all about you, right, Rodney? Oh, no.
It’s not all about you.
Lotta people talkin’ about that girl. What the girl name?
Lotta people talkin’ about that girl. What the girl name? What the girl name?
L-A name. What the girl name? Latoya? No. What the girl name?
Latanya? No. What the girl name?
What the girl name? Latasha. That’s it.
Latasha Harlins.
Fifteen years old. Good student.
On her way to school one morning,
she stopped inconveniently into a convenience store.
Get herself some orange juice. $1.79 worth of orange juice.
Some jugo de naranja.
She put the orange juice in the back of her backpack.
She had two dollars in her hand.
But the lady behind the counter, she don’t understand.
She thought that Latasha was trying to shoplift on her.
So the lady behind the counter, she pushed Latasha.
You can see it on the security cam.
[chuckles] Latasha slap her back two or three time.
Then the lady behind the counter reach underneath the counter,
get herself a stool, throw it at Latasha.
Latasha ducked the stool. That’s not cool. What the fuck?
And put the orange juice on the counter.
And then the lady behind the counter...
after Latasha turn her back to her to walk out the store,
this is what she would do, Miss Soon Ja Du.
She reached underneath the counter,
got herself a handgun, small caliber, and she--
shot Latasha...
in the back of the head...
dead.
Two dollars still in her hand.
Two George Washingtons.
And Miss Soon Ja Du was tried and convicted...
by a jury of her peers.
She was found guilty of girl-slaughter.
Jury recommended the highest possible sentence,
but the presiding judge on the case said,
“Wait a minute. Hold up. Time-out on the court.
Five years probation.
$500 fine.”
And she sentenced Miss Soon Ja Du
to 400 hours of community service.
And the community is saying,
“Wait a minute. Hold up. Time-out on the court.
What about the 400 years of community service
that we have given this country?
And this is the justice which you serve us?”
Latasha Harlins...
was just 15 years old, and she got popped behind $1.79 worth of orange juice.
Jugo de naranja.
She was only 15 years old, mi gente,
but she didn’t have no quinceañera.
She was a good student.
You know, she grew up--
She said she wanted to grow up to be a lawyer.
And she got popped the same way her mama got popped.
When she was just nine years old,
Latasha’s mama got shot and killed in a barroom brawl, y’all.
So she’s a second-generation handgun victim.
So it’s not all about you, Rodney.
No, it’s not all about you.
And just then the famous flame went up that utility pole
and that electric line came down,
and you thought of your father, the Kingfish, right?
Beating your ass with that electric cord.
Oh, Lord.
You thought maybe that was a sign to get your black behind home.
So you put the Hyundai in reverse,
and it’s Florence Avenue eastbound
and then the 110 Freeway northbound.
You get in the left lane, stay in the left lane,
go through the three tunnels that go underneath Dodger Stadium,
and then you veer left into the 5 Freeway northbound,
stay in the right lane, 2 Freeway northbound.
And then it’s the 134 east. Then it’s the 210 west.
You’re back to where it began.
You take off the red, the green, the gold tam with the dreadlocks attached.
You toss it,
and then you reach for the brandy, but it’s killed, but it’s cool,
’cause your boy shows up with a case of Jack Daniel’s that he had looted
and says, “Hit it, Glen. Hit it, Glen. Hit the Jack.
It’s the spoils of war. Hit it, hit it. It’s the spoils of war.
Hit it. Hit it, Glen. Hit it, Glen. It’s a little scorched.
But, you know, hit it, hit it. Hit the Jack. Hit the Jack.”
And you hit the Jack. Right, Rodney? Ahhh!
Ahh. Jack.
And you turn the TV back on-- [mimics TV turning on]
just in time to catch Matthew Haines,
white boy, LBC, Long Beach City.
He was taken off of his motorbike.
They took his motorbike after they took his life.
He was on his way to help a black friend move.
His black friend had to move alone.
Jack.
Juana Espinosa...
in the barrio of Watts,
a devoted mother, wife-- madre, esposa--
she was on her way to the bodega just to get a loaf of bread.
She couldn’t understand what the English-language broadcast said.
She caught a stray bullet in the stomach and woke up dead.
The bread went undelivered.
Jack.
And what about Edward Song Lee, Rodney?
Edward Song Lee. What about Edward Song Lee?
Edward Song Lee. He was only 18 years old.
He figured he gonna throw down in Koreatown,
come to the rescue of Korean-owned bidness.
But Korean-owned bidness mistook him for a looter and they-- [mimics gunshot]
It was Korean-on-Korean violence.
And the rest is what, Rodney?
Oh, that’s right. You didn’t take AP English.
The rest...
is silence.
Alas.
Poor Eddie.
We hardly knew ye. [sobbing]
Jack.
John Doe number 150,
he was burned out in the back of a Pep Boys store...
on Vermont Avenue.
He was about 5’1”, 5’2”,
maybe 125 pounds in weight.
They don’t know if his name was Manny, Moe or...
Jack.
So how you gonna let it go, Rodney Glen, Glen Rodney?
How you gonna let it go?
You always loved the water.
Your father, the Kingfish, he taught you how to fish,
and he taught you how to swim.
And you taught yourself how to ski
up on the top of Mount Baldy.
In the morning, hittin’ the slopes.
In the afternoon-- [chuckles]
you taught yourself how to surf the violent Pacific.
Right, Rodney?
Taking full advantage of Southern California’s topographical options
and breaking racial stereotypes at every step of the way.
“Hey, dude. Hey, Rod. Fuck yeah, man.
Waves are gnarly today, man.
Fuck yeah, Rod. Bitchin’, dude.
This is where we were when LA was burnin’.
Hittin’ the waves, dude.”
And you liked surfing, didn’t you?
Rodney, you loved surfing
until one day you mistook a school of dolphins
for a school of sharks.
And when you got the settlement in the civil case--
How much did you get, Rod?
Three-point what?
Oh, wow. You got your ass kicked and you got three-point what?
Okay. First thing you did was make an investment in real estate.
’Cause you’re in California, you’re gonna invest in some real estate
if you can, right?
You got your mom a nice crib,
and you got yourself a modest home with a backyard.
Pool. Modest home with a backyard. Pool. Modest home with a backyard.
Pool. That’s cool.
And then here on this side of the pool,
you inscribed in black tile that famous date, 3-3-91,
night you got your ass kicked.
And then over here on this side of the pool,
you inscribed in black tile that other famous date, 4-29-92,
the Simi Valley all-white jury,
not guilty, not guilty, not guilty, not guilty.
And then here at the deep end of the pool is what you thought you might do, right?
Inscribe in black tile the final number of the fatalities
from the riots-slash- insurrections-slash-uprising-
slash-rebellion.
But... you thought maybe that’s too much blood.
Too much death.
Or did you think, Rodney,
that maybe the final number of the fatalities hadn’t been tallied yet?
’Cause, you know, there’s always one more to go.
Have you read your autopsy report, Rodney?
The coroner’s... file.
Have you downloaded the pdf thing?
They dissected you, Rodney.
They removed all of your vital organs.
They weighed them. They measured them.
All normal.
Your adrenal glands are normal, Rodney.
Your kidneys are normal. Your lungs are normal.
Your esophagus is normal. Your spleen is normal.
Your genitals are normal. You’re normal.
You’re a normal middle-aged African-American male
who wears a goatee and has a receding hairline.
Right, Rodney?
And then they produce that small chain saw,
not unlike that...
large chain saw that you used
when you were fighting forest fires in the Stanislaus National Forest.
And they bore through your breastbone.
And they produced your heart.
And they held it up as if you were an Aztec god.
And then they weighed your heart on the scales of justice--
420 grams.
Now, they say that a man of your stature should have a heart
that weighs only 360 grams.
You have an abnormally enlarged heart.
Did you know that, Rodney?
And they also identified the Four Horsemen of your Apocalypse.
No, not officers Koon, Powell, Briseno and Wind.
No, we’re talking about booze and weed.
And coke.
And dust.
PCP. Dust.
And dust eventually you would learn to trust.
They said you were dusted that night of the beating.
But toxicology reports proved otherwise.
And dust eventually you would learn to trust.
Then it’s DUI, DUI, DUI,
DUI, DUI, DUI,
DUI, why DUI?
And it’s domestic abuse, no excuse.
Domestic abuse and it’s DUI, DUI.
And is it true that you got popped by the po-po
up in the Echo Parque, in flagrante delicto,
in the back of an auto, butt naked,
with some cross-dressing cubana ho?
Inquiring minds in the Lower East Side wanna know.
[chuckles] Rodrigo Rivas.
Such a beautiful Shakespearean name.
Rodrigo Rivas.
He was shot down and killed, oh, Lord, by the National Guard
on the corner of New Hampshire Avenue and Pico Boulevard in front of another theater that featured another play
in front of another theater that featured another play
about another riot in LA history,
the 1943 Pachuco Riots,
the Zoot Suit Riots, right?
And the star of that play, Zoot Suit,
was none other than Edward James Olmos
of American Me, Star Trek and Miami Vice fame.
And now it’s Thursday night, right, Rodney?
And Eddie-- Eddie Olmos is on TV,
and he’s holding up a broom, addressing the people of LA
and says, “Come on. Come on, mi gente.
Let’s sweep up LA. Let’s sweep up LA.”
But fuck it, right, Rodney? Fuck it.
He’d be better off with a mop and a bucket,
because the blood is running red, up and down Olympic Boulevard.
Where’s King Maintenance when you need it?
Patrick Bettan.
Patrick Bettan was an Algerian who survived the Battle of Algiers
only to lose his life right here.
He was shot and killed on Olympic Boulevard. Oh, Lord.
He was a security guard. He got shot down by another security guard.
It was security guard-on-security guard violence,
and the rest is what, Rodney?
Very good. Very good.
You came into this world in what year, Rodney?
19-what? 65?
The same year that Malcolm X stepped off the planet.
The same year that those famous flames blew up in Watts.
And the same year that Bill Cosby won an Emmy for I Spy.
The first Negro to do so.
And now it’s Thursday night.
Right, Rodney?
And you’ve got a big speech to make the next day, May Day.
May 1, 1992.
You know what you’ve got to do. LA is burning.
So you’ve got to put the fire out once again.
Right, Rodney?
And it’s Thursday night, and...
Mayor Tom Bradley is on TV addressing the people of LA
and saying, “Please be quiet. Don’t riot.
We have a special treat for you tonight.
We’re going to give you the final episode of The Cosby Show
without commercial interruptions.
So sit back and relax.
Get comfortable with the Huxtables.”
Right, Rodney? And so they’re fitting you for a sweater.
Why a sweater?
Because you got that big speech to make, right?
And you gonna wear a sweater, because a sweater reads “Dr. Huxtable,”
and everyone trusts Dr. Huxtable, right?
“Take two of these and call me in the morning.”
Right, Rodney?
They’re fitting you with a sweater, and they’re fitting you with a tie.
Why a sweater and a tie?
’Cause a sweater and a tie reads Mister Rogers.
And everyone trusts Mister Rogers, right?
And you’ve got a big speech to make. Right, Rodney?
On May Day, May 1, 1992.
You know what you’ve got to do.
Those same lawyers who gagged you have typed up a speech for you.
Four pages, typewritten speech.
And you’ve got to deliver that speech and put out that fire.
Right, Rodney?
You never got to testify during the trial.
We never got to hear during the trial
that the officers had said that night, “Run, nigger.”
We never got to hear during the trial
that Sergeant Koon, having found out that you worked in concessions in Dodger Stadium
having found out that you worked in concessions in Dodger Stadium
after having kicked your ass,
said to you, “Hey, Rod, we really played some hardball tonight, didn’t we, Rod?”
No, we never heard that.
And we never heard that the officers had told you that night,
“We’re going to kill you tonight, nigger.”
No.
We never heard the N-word used
in its original and most appropriate context.
Have you...
surfed the Internet yet, Rodney?
Have you read what they’ve been writing about you?
Why don’t we?
Even on the day of your demise, it might come as some surprise.
“Hey, fuck this guy Rodney King, okay?
Fuck him. I don’t care if he’s dead. Okay?
Now, he led the police on a high-speed chase that night.
A lot of people could have been killed that night.
Fuck him. Fuck Rodney King.”
Have you heard the rap called “Fuck Rodney King,” Rodney,
by Willie D of the Geto Boys? The one that goes, “Fuck Rodney King in the ass.
The one that goes, “Fuck Rodney King in the ass. When I see the motherfucker, I’ma blast.
Boom, boom in his head, boom in his back. Yeah, just like that.”
Have you heard that, Rodney? Shall we go back to the Internet?
Why don’t we? “As an African-American--
Honey, is there a hyphen in ‘African-American’?
As an African-American, I think it’s ludicrous
that the late Rodney King should be held up
as some sort of role model in our community.
Certainly, there are people who are more worthy of this honor.
Uh, Supreme Court Justice Clarence Thomas certainly.
And let’s not forget about former First Lady Condoleezza Rice.”
Shall we go back and continue with the Internet? Why don’t we?
“OMG. OMG. OMG. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
OMG. OMG. WTF? What the fuck? What the fuck?
OMG. Oh, my God.
I’ve been like, like, like. I’ve been like, like, like.
I’ve been like, like, like, like,
listening to the 911 emergency call from Rodney King’s swimming pool,
like, nonstop.
Oh, my God. OMG. I don’t know who’s the bigger idiot, okay?
The person who calls in and says, ‘Help, help.
He’s at the bottom of the pool. Come quick. Come quick. Come quick.’
Or the operator who says, ‘Is he breathing?’”
They’re laughing at you right now, Rodney.
You’re the butt of a joke in New York City.
They’re laughing at you right now.
They have no idea that you a father, that you a grandfather,
that you expired in the bottom of your swimming pool
on Father’s Day.
The same way that your father, the Kingfish, expired.
You found him, didn’t you, Rodney?
When you were just a teenager, he had drowned in his bathtub.
He had done drunk hisself to death.
So you’re a second-generation, alcoholic drowning victim,
but they don’t know that.
Maybe they just know you from Celebrity Rehab with Dr. Drew.
Or maybe they just know you from Celebrity Boxing
where you kicked that ex-cop’s ass in Philadelphia.
Mumia Abu-Jamal was not the referee.
Or maybe they know you from the BET comedy hour
when you were introduced from the audience as “Rodney damn King.
The nigga who survived the biggest ass-whupping in history.
Stand up, Rodney.
Stand up, Rodney. Stand up, Rodney.
Stand up, Rodney!”
But now it’s May Day.
May 1...
1992.
Come on, Rodney King.
You’ve got your sweater and your tie.
You got your bulletproof vest. Your Jheri curl is dripping.
You’ve got your four-page, typewritten speech.
You look at the first page.
You can’t read it.
’Cause at a very young age, you were diagnosed as what?
Dys...
What’s the word? Dys--
Dys-- so you take this first page and you toss it.
And you take the second and the third pages
and you toss them.
And you take the fourth page and you toss it, because this...
performance has no script.
It’s completely improvised.
Right, Rodney?
You gonna-- [chuckles]
speak from your heart.
You gonna speak from the bottom...
of your abnormally enlarged heart.
You ready to start?
Five...
“Let it go, Glen. Let it go, son.”
Four...
“That’s it, son.
Throw out your line.
Reel in your catch.”
Three...
“Slow down, Glen.
Glen, slow down.”
Two...
“We’re going to kill you tonight...
nigger.”
One.
“Mr. King.
You’re on.”
“People.
I just wanna say, you know,
can we...
Can we all get along? Can we...
Can we get along?
Can we stop making it horrible
for the old folks and--
and the kids?
I mean...
There’s enough smog in Los Angeles
without, you know,
setting these fires and things.
It’s not right.
It’s not right, and it’s not...
It’s not gonna change anything.
We’ll get our justice.
They’ve won the battle, but they haven’t...
won the war.
We’ll get our day in court, which is all we want.
I...
I love...
I love ev--
I’m not a...
I’m neutral. I’m--
I’m not what they’re picking me out to be.
I love... people of color.
We’ve got to quit. We’ve got--
We gotta quit. I mean...
I can understand, you know...
I can understand the first upset, you know,
the first couple of hours after the verdict.
But it’s just, you know...
keep on going on.
Like, this-- this is-- this is not right.
And to see...
the security guard...
shot down on the ground.
That’s not right...
because these people will never go home
to their families again.
We can get along. We can get along.
We can get along.
Just have to, you know...
I mean, we’re all stuck here for a while, so let’s, you know, work it out.
Let’s work it out.
Let’s, you know, try to be the...
You know.
Let’s...
Let’s work it out. We can work it out.
We-- We--
I can’t breathe.
I can’t breathe.
I can’t--
♪ But now I know I only hurt myself ♪ ♪ Baby, bring it to me ♪
-[turns radio off] -You want something else?
No, nothing wrong with Sam. Just... wanted to take in the scenery.
This is gonna be good for us, Jess, really good.
[woman on radio] Police are investigating a break-in  and burglary at a county cemetery...
Gerald. -Yeah? -Gerald!
-Yeah? -Gerald! Oh, shit!
and reportedly disturbing several...
He's starving.
...partially exhuming at least one casket.
They should do something about those strays.
Several city council...
I think he had a collar. He might belong to someone.
He won't for long. If he keeps going for roadkill, he's gonna be roadkill himself.
-We're not going back for him. -I know.
-We're not. [laughs] -I know.
Not again. [groans]
-Just be two minutes, babe. Okay? -It's okay.
Yeah?
Yeah. No, I understand.
But the only way we can move forward is if they accept a non-compete clause.
-You stocked us. -Yeah. Enough for the whole weekend.
[Jessie] Here, boy!
You hungry? [whistles]
You out there?
There you are.
Look what I have for you.
It's okay.
Here you go, my poor prince.
-What are you doing? -Oh. I was just...
Uh... I was just trying to feed that dog.
That's Kobe rib eye. It's actually from Kobe.
It's... $200 a portion.
Sorry, there were four in the fridge. I figured...
You've got such a good heart. That's who I married.
For better or worse.
No, just leave it. It'll be the best meat he's ever had.
Let's go in, get comfy.
Okay.
[Jessie] I would have only eaten half a piece.
[Jessie] He looks so hungry.
-[chuckles] Sorry, I didn't know. -[Gerald] No problem.
Do you wanna open some champagne now or should we...
Um, we could...
Okay.
-Are you ready? -I'm ready.
-Wow, babe. -You look amazing.
Thanks.
Sorry, babe. Gloss. [chuckles]
Gotta say, I was-- I was expecting...
more novelty things, like with velvet or silk or something.
Oh, no. No, these are the real deal.
The others can just break if you get going too hard.
-Okay? -Yeah.
This is good. You'll like this.
Is it okay?
Sure.
Try to move.
I love this slip.
Oh, good, I bought it special.
You'll like it better around your shoulders.
Well...
Look what I found.
-What? -I bet you want me to leave.
I bet you think your husband will be back any minute.
But something tells me he won't.
You can try to scream... if you want to.
There's no one for miles.
-Um... Gerald. -Gerald?
I'm sorry, baby, you don't get to know my name.
Try to call for help.
-Really? -Come on, just try.
-Help. Somebody help me. -Come on.
Come on, you said you'd try to make it feel real.
Yeah, just... calling for help, it's kinda...
-What are we trying to do here? -Just try it.
I'm sorry. I'm feeling a little weird.
And I thought the point was to feel sexy, so...
-Well, you'll settle into it. -Okay.
Help! Somebody help!
-Sorry, I'm just... -That really hurt.
-You like it, though. Don't you? -[muffled] Gerald. Gerald.
I don't like this.
-I'm serious. Stop. -Yeah, like that. Make it feel real.
Stop it.
-Make me. -Stop!
You can fight all you want, but Daddy's gonna get what Daddy wants.
Fucking stop it!
Uncuff me now! [panting]
Are you-- are you playing?
Wipe that absurd grin off your face.
Uncuff me and stop calling yourself fucking "Daddy"!
Jesus.
Isn't this why we came up here?
To spice things up and try and push some boundaries?
-I said I'd try a few things. -Yeah.
-You said you'd try. -And I tried, and it's not working.
Is this... Is this really what it takes these days?
Well, fuck, Jess, I--
Sorry...
if I wanna try and make things more exciting.
You haven't touched me... in months.
No interest whatsoever,
until I say I'll let you play some sex game,
and it's turning into a rape fantasy that I never knew you had.
Please, just unlock these.
This isn't gonna save us, Ger. It never was.
I just-- I feel ridiculous.
Nice.
-Now I'm ridiculous. -No.
Babe, I feel ridiculous. That's all I'm saying.
Jesus, I can't do a fucking thing right, can I?
-That's not true. -You can't blame me...
if I don't get excited anymore, and you won't even try.
Okay. Just uncuff me and we can talk.
What if I won't?
What do you mean?
What if I won't?
Wait. You have to.
What if I'm sweet?
Go to the bathroom, get the keys off the sink.
I'll just be sweet.
-Gerald... -Shh.
-I need you to stop this. -You'll like it.
[yells] Fuck!
What the fuck is the matter with you?
With me?
How did we go so wrong?
Jess, we were happy once.
Of course.
-Weren't we? -Yes.
-I mean, weren't we? -Yes.
What?
Gerald?
-[gasps] Oh, my God. -Honey.
Hey, that's not funny.
Gerald? -[gasps] -Gerald?
What's-- Gerald?
-[moans and gasps] -Hey, hey! What's happ--
Oh, my God.
Honey?
Come on.
I can't...
Gerald! Gerald!
Hey, baby, look at me.
Wake up, Gerald.
Gerald?
Ger?
Where-- Gerald.
Gerald, say something!
Please!
Oh, God!
Wake up! Wake up!
Help!
Sound more real now, huh?
You wanna try again?
Just get back up here. You can do anything you want.
I mean it.
Anything.
Help!
Help! Somebody!
Help! Somebody!
Help. [sniffles]
Wake up.
Just wake up.
It's time to wake up, honey.
It's time to wake up.
Hello?
Help.
It'll be dark.
In an hour or so, it'll be so dark.
We're back here! He's hurt!
Nate, Kelly, is that you?
Shit.
Hi.
How was the steak?
It's $200 a portion, you know.
I don't suppose you're a rescue dog.
I didn't think so.
Back off from him.
Get away from him.
Back off!
Bad dog!
Bad dog!
Bad dog! Go away!
Get the fuck away!
Get the fuck away from him!
No.
No.
-[gasps] Gerald? -What the hell?
Oh, my God. Thank God. I thought-- I thought you--
My goddamn arm!
-[stammers] I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. -The dog, right?
-You were so right. I was so wrong. -The one you fed.
Uncuff me and hold me. I'm so sorry, baby!
The goddamn dog.
That goddamn dog.
The goddamn dog you had to feed.
Smelled the blood, did what dogs do.
Fuck you, roadkill! I hope you choke!
Should've let you cut up all the steak. Maybe it would've filled him up.
But I guess they always smell fresher meat.
Do you remember the joke I told at Christmas last year?
You came up behind me.
I was, like, four or five into the night already.
I was loose but not slurring yet.
It was Tom Reynolds I was talking to...
in this low and conspiratorial, in that very specific "guys only" fucking tone
in this low and conspiratorial, in that very specific "guys only" fucking tone that says, "You'll appreciate this, brother, but only you."
that says, "You'll appreciate this, brother, but only you."
You didn't hear the beginning of the joke, just the end...
"And what is a woman anyway?"
And I waited.
That cocky little pause I take before a punch line
that really makes me proud of myself, and Tom said, "What?" like he already knew the answer,
and Tom said, "What?" like he already knew the answer, and I said...
"A life support..."
Come on. "And what is a woman, anyway?"
-"A life support system for a cunt." -Yeah, that was it.
You never told me you heard it. You never raised an objection.
You smiled through the night, hated me a little bit,
-but never once brought it up. -Because you're not like that.
-You don't talk that way. -Yeah, was I just putting on a show?
For a client?
Stooping to his level to get something I needed,
or was that who I really was, underneath it all?
Don't ask a question you don't wanna know the answer to, I guess.
I guess.
A life support system for a stupid fucking cunt is more like it.
How many hours you been chained to that bed?
You never heard me breathe, not once. And you know the sound.
You've heard it every night for the last 11 years.
That tiny rumbling snore I make in the back of my throat
that sometimes. I make when I'm lost in thought. I forget myself. I zone out.
That tiny little "Gerald only" fucking purr.
Hours of not hearing that sound, total fucking silence, and you knew it.
Five minutes after my head hit the floor, you saw blood. You heard the silence,
Five minutes after my head hit the floor, you saw blood. You heard the silence, and you knew it, but you just laid there, wasting precious minutes and hours
and you knew it, but you just laid there, wasting precious minutes and hours
and breath and life, calling my fucking name, talking to a corpse on the floor.
and breath and life, calling my fucking name, talking to a corpse on the floor. What's happening?
Well, I'm pretty sure you just lost your mind.
Seeing a dog eating your husband will do that.
If you're gonna have a mental breakdown, that's a great excuse.
If you're gonna have a mental breakdown, that's a great excuse. Right.
The blood stopped spreading.
A while ago.
And you did what you always do when it gets too much, you ran.
In here.
You just laid here, calling my name again and again,
and let critical time tick by
-like a stupid fucking-- -Stop it.
You should have been thinking about life support.
Maybe that's why you're remembering that joke now.
Gotta be for some reason, after all.
And why is that?
-Time. -That's right!
You're a life support system. You've been unplugged.
There's still juice in there, but the charge is running down.
And if you don't get out of the cuffs, it will go all the way to zero.
When did we get here?
One-ish, I think.
And how long till we got into bed?
-An hour, maybe more. -Call that two o'clock, then.
And I dropped dead...
Ten minutes, maybe, after.
When's the sun been setting?
-7:15 or so. -Oh, that's pretty close.
That's another 15, 20, tops. So, let's say... five hours, so far.
Five hours you've wasted, screaming for neighbors that are half a mile away.
screaming for neighbors that are half a mile away.
[both] If they're even here yet.
And, you know, if you really think about it...
-Nate and Kelly said they wouldn't-- -They wouldn't be heading up until June.
The maids came to prep for us yesterday.
Because the bed is made and the house is dusted.
Which means they're done and gone, and the grass...
-...was cut, fresh. -Which means no gardeners.
Because I arranged it all to get the place ready for us today.
And I wouldn't want them interrupting my little game,
so I probably gave them at least the weekend off.
-So, who could possibly-- -...possibly hear you scream?
Except Cujo over there?
-You tried that. -I know.
You can pull till your wrists break. You're not getting out of those cuffs.
[laughs] I told you. I told you.
It's that easy.
Oh, babe, you're really losing it now.
Except your hand won't fit through the cuff
and the bedpost is reinforced.
-Nice thought, though. -Shut up.
Don't listen to him. He's the reason we're here and look how he ended up.
I'm just telling her how things really are.
No, you're doing what you always did, minimizing, condescending.
Men aren't so much blessed with penises as cursed by them.
And we might die here today because of Gerald's five inches.
Our life has to add up to more than that.
-I can't get out. -What about the stories on the news,
where mothers lift their cars to save their children?
She's no mother.
What's that supposed to mean?
No maternal instinct.
-Your career always came first. -That's what you said.
Maybe you even started to believe it.
I'm not so sure you can hide things from me now.
You're wasting precious time here.
I can't get out. -You have to. -I am chained to the goddamn bed!
-You have to. -I am chained to the goddamn bed!
Don't recite facts to me. Wake up.
Says the voice in your head.
This is you... all over.
Problem, panic, denial.
Hoping if you look away, it'll magically vanish.
If you don't wake up, you're gonna die in those handcuffs.
And we both know you've been sleepwalking since you were 12 years old.
-Not now. -If not now, when?
Not now, what?
He put you in those handcuffs way before Gerald did.
Who's "he"?
If I can get to the phone...
Phone's gonna die anyway. I never charged it.
Or did a load of laundry, for that matter.
Tough luck.
Okay, scrap that. Phone might as well be on Mars.
If you can't get off the bed...
live long enough for someone to find you on it.
What's wrong?
My head hurts.
You know why?
Life support.
How long do you think someone lives without water?
Three days?
At best.
Yeah, seems like I've heard three days somewhere.
That feels about right.
And it's been, what? Five...
six, seven hours.
I wanted to please you so badly.
This was such a stupid fucking idea.
Remember when I first started taking those?
I hid it.
For what, six months?
I found the prescription.
You found it and never said anything.
But I knew you'd seen it, and I just stopped covering it up.
-We never talked about it, though. -There was that one time.
That one time.
Late one night, you tried without a pill, and it just wasn't working.
Late one night, you tried without a pill, and it just wasn't working. -I was as soft as a kitten. -Until...
-I was as soft as a kitten. -Until... -Until... -Until you held my wrists above my head.
-Until... -Until you held my wrists above my head.
-I hadn't done that before. -No, you had.
-This time, though... -I grabbed your throat.
-Softly, then I squeezed, didn't I? -Mm-hmm.
And, God, was I hard.
I was harder than you'd felt in years.
And you just laid there...
and I went to town...
and you moaned...
like a dutiful wife, never objected.
But, for the first time, first time in all those years, you wondered...
"Who exactly did I marry?"
We never really know, do we?
'Cause everybody's got a little corner in there somewhere.
A button... they won't admit they want pressed.
Year after year...
I barely gave you a glimpse of mine.
[Jessie 2] One thing for sure...
you're glad he took those little blue pills.
You're glad.
I couldn't figure out...
what was wrong with me that you needed.
No, you're not listening. Take one, babe.
Now give it to her.
Wait, I--
Give it to her. -Are you-- -Give her what she needs.
-Are you-- -Give her what she needs.
Nice.
[Jessie 2] Thank God for those pills.
For those little blue pills that made Gerald so thirsty.
Okay. Okay.
You're smirking.
What?
That's what.
-Stupid. -No.
Don't you dare let it go.
-But I can't. -Put it down.
-Where? -Right where you caught it.
-Where you know you can reach it again. -Okay.
Careful.
Go away.
-Get the fuck away! -Look at me.
That dog is just doing what it has to, to get along, and you have to do the same.
-Focus. -But I can't!
You're right. Give up.
Come tomorrow, you and Gerald will be together again,
inside the fucking dog.
-Can we please get back to work now? -Mm-hmm.
[Gerald] I love this slip.
I love this slip.
Oh, good, I bought it special.
You bought it brand-new.
Leave some for later.
Why can't I keep my eyes open?
Stress makes your adrenaline and cortisol levels skyrocket,
and now you're crashing.
That's it, just fade away.
Assume this'll all be fine.
-I know... I know I shouldn't. -Well, maybe you should.
If anyone's gonna find you, it'll likely be tomorrow, not tonight.
-I will need my energy. -[Jessie 2] You will.
You will, at that.
Hmm. Tomorrow.
Where'd you go, you little shit? [gasps]
Hello?
Who are you?
I... I need help.
You're... not...
real.
Not real.
Not real.
Maybe.
Or maybe you're just not safe anymore.
People are safe from ghouls and ghosts...
and the living dead in the daylight.
And they're usually safe from them at night...
if they're with others.
But a person alone... in the dark...
Women alone in the dark are like open doors, Jessie.
And if they scream for help, who knows what might answer?
Who knows what people see in the moment of their solitary death?
Is it so hard to believe that some of them may have died of fear...
no matter what the words on the death certificates say?
Died of fear...
because they saw, at their bedside...
the Moonlight Man.
Maybe that's just what Death looks like.
Not... real.
Then why did the dog leave?
Maybe he just moved...
under the bed.
He could reach up at any time, put his hand on your hip.
And if he wants that cold, dirty hand...
on your soft, warm flesh,
there's not much you can do about it, Mouse.
-What did you call me? -Close your eyes.
If there's a monster under your bed, it won't bother you if you're asleep.
Everybody knows that, Mouse.
Don't call me that.
Dream your dreams.
Dream deep.
You okay, Jessie?
-It's so much smaller than I remember. -'Cause you're bigger.
-Come on, Mouse. -[mother] Wait up.
[sister] I'm going in the water!
-[father] No, no, no. -[mother] No, no running, please.
Thank you.
[man on radio] For the first time in 26 years,
a total solar eclipse will occur in the United States.
The few and lucky cities along the path of the eclipse
who have decided to create official viewing areas,
have set their focus to logistics,
ensuring the comfort and safety of their guests.
For those of us who have never seen a total solar eclipse,
this is an opportunity to view one of the most rare...
-and beautiful phenomena on the planet. -[siblings] Dad!
The eclipse is tracked...
-Oh, you did it! -We finally finished them.
[brother] I made this, too.
All right. Here, go on out to the boat now.
-Yes, sir. -Be careful.
-[sister] Okay. -[brother] Okay, Dad.
[man on radio] It's rare to see more than one from any single location.
You'd have to wait an average of 375 years to see two eclipses from the same place.
Since our area lies within the path of totality,
we can expect to experience two minutes and 20 seconds of totality,
starting today at around 4:17 p.m.
You want me to make sandwiches for the boat?
I don't think I wanna go out on the boat today. The lake scares me.
People have drowned out there, you know.
[father] If she's afraid of the water, I'm not gonna force her out onto a boat.
[mother] We came here as a family to do this on the lake.
It is not going to kill her to spend some time with the rest of us.
She's a complete daddy's girl.
-That's normal, isn't it? -Please don't.
What?
You didn't even wanna go skiing with us over Christmas.
And we didn't force you out onto the mountain, did we?
No, we left you at the lodge and let you relax.
[mother] You wanna stay with her?
Stay with her. Fine. She's a nuisance anyway.
She picks fights with her brother. She rolls her eyes at me incessantly.
-[father] She's 12. -Yeah. Smiles and sweetness for Daddy.
That's totally age-appropriate behavior, isn't it?
Sure.
It's just...
It's fine. It's fine! It's fine.
Okay, I'm not...
This is another reminder to our listeners not to look directly into the eclipse, which should begin to--
not to look directly into the eclipse, which should begin to--
That's better.
Unless you don't wanna listen to Daddy's old man music.
No, I like it.
That's a beautiful dress.
-Is that your new one? -Yeah. Mom said it was too short.
Mom's wrong.
You look amazing.
You look like a proper young woman.
-Here, so you don't hurt your eyes. -Thanks. Where's yours?
Oh, you know what? I don't know.
I think your mom might have taken it.
-Scoot close and we'll share. -Okay.
It's starting.
What? [chuckles]
Nothing.
I'm just remembering something.
You and me, sitting here together...
When you were a little girl, you used to sit on my lap.
You'd point up at the stars, and you'd ask me how far away each one was.
[chuckles] That's embarrassing.
No.
It's the sweetest.
Some great evenings out here, you and me.
Me and Mouse.
Nah, that's stupid.
What?
I was gonna say...
What?
Well, how about it?
For old time's sake?
Nah, that's silly. That's just a silly idea from your silly old man.
I was just...
thinking about how happy those times were, that's all.
Hell, I know you're a grown woman now.
You're too big to sit on your daddy's lap anymore.
I just miss my little girl sometimes.
I'm not too big.
You sure?
Yeppers.
Mouse... -I love you. -I love you too, Daddy.
-Awesome. It's just amazing. -♪ If you ever change your mind... ♪
Daddy, you're missing it.
Just... you keep watching.
-♪ Bring it on home to me ♪ -Daddy?
Just keep watching. -♪ Yeah, yeah, yeah ♪ -♪ Yeah, yeah... ♪
-Daddy... -Just keep... watching.
Oh, Jesus. Jesus! [winces]
You've been hanging on them all night. They need circulation.
It burns!
Cramps. They'll...
...pass.
The cramps will pass.
Keep pedaling. Get the blood flowing.
Oh, God...
Oh, God, that hurts.
[Gerald] Bad dreams.
You never told me...
about the eclipse.
I never told anyone.
That's a marriage, isn't it?
-Telling each other the difficult things? -Not that one, no.
No wonder it didn't work.
It wasn't relevant to us.
[Jessie 2] Really?
You married an older man.
Your father was a lawyer. Gerald was a lawyer.
Your father minimized you, objectified you.
Let's not forget my burgeoning drinking problem.
Babe, if you had a drinking problem, that's certainly cured now.
The point is, Jessie...
you married into the only dynamic you've ever known.
You were a girl, he was a man, and...
you never walked away from that.
That afternoon never ended.
It's not enough... that I'm here.
I also have to be there? Again?
You tell me.
You'd gotten your period for the first time a month before, right?
Maybe that's what got him going. He smelled the blood and did what dogs do.
Our friend in the hall is every man you've ever known.
He had Kobe rib eye... -It's actually from Kobe. -...till he smelled Gerald.
-It's actually from Kobe. -...till he smelled Gerald.
Your father had your mother till you were nice and ripe.
-It wasn't like that. -And Gerald...
The late hours, the mystery callers...
The weekend trips... What was he really doing?
You ignored it, but...
you knew his hunger for you had faded, and a dog's gotta eat.
I handled it.
Sure.
Just like you handled those last few minutes on Daddy's lap.
He didn't rape me.
He didn't even touch me.
He only touched himself. [sobs]
And if you wanna blame someone...
I might as well blame...  my mother or the boat.
The sundress that was too short.
What he did to me on that swing...
wasn't the worst thing anyone's ever done.
No, that would be what he did to you after, in the bedroom.
What did he do?
Nothing.
He just talked to me.
Nothing?
Nothing on the swing.
And nothing in the room. It might as well have been a bad dream.
I had a dream...
that night at the lake house.
There was a woman...
standing over a deep well, looking down into the blackness.
And I'm in the well, looking up at her.
The sky was so dark behind her...
the eclipse burning overhead.
The smell... The smell in that well...
It was like pennies, and then oysters.
She was standing there in her red dress...
looking right at me.
What was in the well?
Secrets.
So many secrets.
You thought yours could go down there, too.
Just... throw 'em in the well, down in the dark.
Who was the woman?
I remember thinking maybe she was supposed to be me.
Because she would never tell. I knew that, looking at her.
She'd die before she told.
"I could do that," I figured.
I don't know why I thought of that.
It was just a dream.
Like the man in the corner.
He was definitely... a bad dream.
I don't know, princess.
You can tell yourself that if you need to. He was a trick of the mind.
Just like you, Gerald. Just like both of you.
Then why won't you look over there for more than a second?
What are you afraid you're gonna see?
-Why are you still listening to him? -Shh!
-It's probably from the dog. -It's bigger than that.
Look at it again.
[Gerald] I think it's a footprint.
-And if it is... -Shut up!
...it was Death you saw.
He'll be back tonight, Jessie.
And when you're dead, he'll have your wedding ring in his case...
with the rest of his pretty things.
His souvenirs.
-I am gonna close my eyes. -No.
-And count to ten. -Stay awake.
And when I open them...
you will both be gone.
-Ten, nine, eight... -[Jessie 2] Do you hear me?
-Stay awake. -I'm awake.
Seven, six, five...
four, three...
two...
one.
[father] You all right, Mouse?
I'm so sorry.
I'm sorry you were there when I...
It's not like I touched you, Jessie.
But still...
Maybe we should tell Mom.
I think we have to, don't you?
I hate to...
just because things have been pretty tense between the two of you lately.
Hell, they've been tense between us, too...
with the baby and all.
But this...
well, this could make things a lot worse.
She won't think it's your fault.
I'm sure.
Fairly sure. I mean, she might.
We all know... it wasn't your fault.
Maybe we shouldn't tell her.
I have to.
We have to.
Why?
Because...
-Because you can't keep it a secret. -Because you can't keep it a secret.
I mean, if it's ever going to come out,
then it's better for both of us that it happen now.
Not in a week or a year or... even ten years from now.
Please...
I won't tell.
I mean...
if we don't tell your mom today...
then we could never tell anyone.
I wouldn't. Never.
Not ever.
-Ever. -And not just your mother.
Not anyone.
That's a big responsibility for a little girl.
I'm sorry.
A young woman.
But you might be tempted.
With friends...
One of them tells you a secret, maybe you might wanna tell them.
-Never. -Or your brother.
Or your sister.
There might come a time when you wanna tell--
No.
No. I promise. I swear.
I don't know, Jess.
I think it might be better for both of us if this were all out in the open now.
Take our medicine.
I mean, she can't kill us.
Please...
Please, please, please. Please just don't tell her.
I won't tell anybody... ever.
Ever. Please.
I've never been able to refuse you anything that you really wanted, have I?
Okay, Jess.
We'll try things your way.
Thank you, Daddy.
So I guess we have a deal.
I say nothing. You say nothing, not to anyone else, not even to each other.
You say nothing, not to anyone else, not even to each other.
We walk out of this room...
and it never happened.
Okay.
I did a shameful thing.
You looked away... when you said that.
You were able to face me with the lies.
But it was the truth that finally made you turn away.
[father] I don't know what came over me.
Maybe it was the eclipse.
Well, thank God we'll never see another one.
Nothing happened.
Nothing ever happened.
Come on, let's get grilling. They should be back in a bit.
He'll try that again.
It's fresher meat.
You're still strong enough to kick, but you won't be for long,
and he can smell that.
Afternoon already.
Sun's starting down.
And no one came this morning.
Or if they did, you were asleep.
Eventually, someone will find you, Jess, but it might take a long time.
The first assumption will be we're off on some wild romantic fling.
I mean, why not?
Only you and I know, at the end,
I could only get it up if you were handcuffed to the bed.
To the rest of the world, we're the picture of marital function.
Sooner or later, people will start looking, my people.
There are a couple of women in New Orleans you call friends, but...
You've never really let them inside your life, have you?
None of them are gonna worry much if you drop out of sight for a week or...
ten days.
But I have appointments.
And when I don't show up by Friday, there'll be questions.
That's how it'll start.
I think the caretaker will actually discover the bodies.
He'll call the cops when he spots you through the window or...
when he smells us.
He'll turn his face away while he throws the blanket from the closet over you
because he won't wanna see your fingers sticking through the handcuffs.
Stiff as pencils, white as candles.
But, most of all...
he won't wanna look at the expression of horror on your face.
Why are you doing this?
The forensics unit will show up with the county coroner.
When they pull off the blanket, they will...
wince and nod and tell each other the woman on the bed died hard.
But they won't know the half of it.
They won't know...
the real reason your eyes are staring...
and your mouth is screaming...
is because of what you saw at the end...
coming out of the dark.
They'll take you to the medical examiner. He'll cut you open, inventory your guts.
He'll have a peek at what's left of your last meal,
take a little section of brain to look at under his microscope.
But in the end...
in the end, he'll just call it "death by misadventure."
-They were playing a harmless game. -Harmless.
Only the gentleman had a heart attack at a critical moment...
and the woman was left to...
Well, it's best not to get into it.
Just to say the lady died hard.
You only need to look at her to see that.
And maybe someone will notice your wedding ring is gone...
but they won't hunt for it for long, if at all.
They won't notice that one of your bones...
not an important one, the third phalange in your right foot, let's say...
is also gone.
But we'll know, won't we, Jess?
We'll know he took them.
Because it was Death.
And you did see him...
as people who die in the lonely places do.
It was Death.
And tonight, when the sun goes down, he'll be back for you.
♪ Hush, little baby, don't say a word ♪
♪ Mama's gonna buy you... ♪
-I'm gonna die. -Everything dies.
All things serve the beam.
♪ And if that mockingbird don't sing ♪
-I'm gonna die. -Yes, love.
-♪ Papa's gonna buy you a diamond ring ♪ -He'll come quicker that way.
♪ If that diamond ring turns brass ♪
That way, you wouldn't have to wait for the Moonlight Man.
-I'm going to... -[father] ...sleep.
You're going to sleep.
♪ Papa's gonna buy you a looking glass ♪
I'm sorry.
I don't want you to be sorry.
Then what do you want?
I want you to remember.
You think I don't remember?
I remember every moment.
I remember every shame-filled glance he threw my way, and I remember Mom...
-looking but not seeing-- -That's not what I'm talking about.
Because seeing?
It would have meant my little sister was also doomed
to let that son of a bitch steal her childhood,
and Mom would have died before facing that.
So it was up to me to protect Maddie.
Even though it meant that I never felt like part of the family again.
And that wasn't my job description. Was it? My job was to be a kid.
Suddenly, that wasn't an option.
You've had everything you need to survive from the beginning.
You just have to remember.
Not the sun, not the eclipse.
After.
[mother] We had fun on the boat. Should we get one?
-[Maddie] Yeah. -[mother] Yeah?
I hope it was as pretty here as it was on the boat.
-It was awesome. -It was fun.
-[laughing] -"It was fun."
It was beautiful here, too. Right, Mouse? We had fun.
Did you have a nice time with your dad, Jess?
Jesus! Jess, are you okay?
I'm-- I'm-- I'm sorry. It was an accident.
Just come on, let's get this cleaned up.
Oh, it's not so bad.
I think you'll live.
-Does it hurt? -It's okay.
Just...
Just be careful.
The last thing I want...
is to have to take you to the emergency room
and have your fingers sewn back on.
It's gonna fucking hurt.
-But the thing about blood... -But the thing about blood...
...is that, until it clots, it's as slick as oil.
That will not work.
Maybe not.
But the wrists have fewer nerves than the body's other checkpoints.
That's why slitting wrists is always the best way to--
How do you know so much about that?
Go too deep, you'll bleed to death.
Do nothing, I'll die of seizures, dehydration or dog.
Or when my visitor with the bag of bones shows up tonight.
The sun is starting down. He'll be here soon.
Then I'll have to hurry.
Barely working, aren't they?
-I won't need much. -Your legs won't be reliable.
It's been a day and a half since you walked on them.
If my hands pull this off, my legs better do their fucking part.
Okay.
Visualize it, then. All of it.
Okay, okay.
[Jessie 2] Once you start, you're not gonna be able to stop.
Everything has to go very fast because your system is already dehydrated.
-And, Jessie... -Huh? you know, if anything goes wrong--
It won't matter.
Goodbye.
Okay.
You stay right there, dog.
One, two...
Okay, okay.
Okay, okay, okay, okay.
Come on. Come on.
Okay. Okay.
Get off me!
[whispers] You're only made of moonlight.
You're only made of...
Moonlight.
Oh, God.
Please, just a little bit longer.
[mumbles] Please just... a little...
Mouse.
Hi.
I'm writing this letter with my right hand, nestled snug in its frictionless burn glove.
nestled snug in its frictionless burn glove.
Three skin grafts later, it still doesn't work quite right,
and it still hurts to write.
But that's good.
This letter should hurt to write.
The doctors, the cops and even the reporters
accepted my amnesia at face value.
And why not?
People who undergo serious trauma often block out memories.
The cops knew that even better than the lawyers.
And I knew it better than any of them.
Gerald's firm kept the details out of the papers.
That was kind.
The coroners confirmed it was a heart attack and a long time coming.
The insurance paid, the headlines faded, and life went on.
The new normal.
Well, not normal.
Never normal.
Every night, just before I closed my eyes...
If it wasn't him, if it wasn't his face keeping me from sleep...
it was the question.
That in all the reports,
all the cops that combed through that house,
they never found my wedding ring.
What got me through those nights was you.
Thinking of you.
And why you came to me that day.
You, in your sunless world, always on that swing.
What you needed me to understand...
that his shackles were silence,
and his were comfort.
My days were better.
I took the insurance money,
and I started a foundation for girls and boys like us.
I spent so long never telling that story, so... I made sure that I did.
I tell that story every day to every kid it could possibly help.
When I was 12, I went to the lake house with my family.
And while that helped my days, I still sat up at night...
waiting for that pale face in the moonlight...
to claim his runaway bride.
Six months after the handcuffs, six months of being a widow...
six months of living death.
And then Raymond Andrew Joubert's picture first appeared in the paper.
Two years ago, reports of graveyard vandalism
in the backwoods of Alabama hit the papers,
but I never read about them, not in New Orleans.
And they were tiny stories, buried.
Someone was breaking into crypts and mausoleums
of small town cemeteries with drills, bolt cutters and hacksaws...
and stripping corpses of jewelry.
As the months went by, it escalated.
Incidents started being reported in Louisiana.
He gouged out eyes, cut corpses' throats.
Last February, two were found without noses.
Later hands. Then... ears.
Something I'd always assumed was the dog.
And when it came to removing genitalia after having sex with the dead...
he stuck strictly to the gentlemen.
This was, clearly, extremely lucky for me.
I only noticed when he finally made the front page.
He'd graduated, it seemed, from the dead.
And, one night, a man woke up to find Raymond Joubert in his room,
naked, trying to cut off his ear.
Joubert suffers from acromegaly,
a progressive enlargement of the hands, feet and face
that happens when the pituitary gland goes into warp drive.
It causes the forehead to bulge
and abnormally long arms that dangle almost to his knees.
They went to his only known address, a farmhouse on Kingston Road.
They didn't find him there,
but they did find his sister and her husband,
who he called his "mommy and daddy."
He'd scalped them both and eaten most of "Daddy."
They found 50 bell jars containing ears, lips, fingers.
They think he may have killed as many as a dozen people in the last five years.
But, for some reason, he spared me.
This monster was real, real as they come.
As real as the cuffs, as the dog.
As real as the eclipse.
And so I had to write this to you, Mouse...
because you're the only person who'd understand...
and you're the only one who truly matters.
[Young Jessie] "He's being arraigned tomorrow, and I'm going to see him.
Because the people who were supposed to protect you from the monsters...
[both] turned out to be monsters themselves...
[both] and it almost killed you."
We need the sun to come back out.
After so long...
I think we deserve the sun.
[reporter] This morning, it was announced that cameras would not be allowed
inside the courtroom for the arraignment,
an unusual decision in a case that's already full of surprises.
But nothing more unusual than the way...
Sources within the Alabama State Police Department tell us
Raymond Andrew Joubert hasn't spoken a single word since his arrest,
not even to his public defender.
[man] Sixteen counts trespassing and vandalism.
Eighteen counts desecration.
Eight counts first-degree murder.
Twenty-one counts mutilation.
Twenty-eight counts desecrating human remains.
Sixteen counts breaking and entering.
-Four counts, assault and battery. -[clears throat] Hey!
Ma'am?
You're not real!
You're not real!
[woman] Officer!
Chapter one.
You're on a dock.
You've been here before.
Choose to walk down the dock.
Notice the boat.
Notice the gathering clouds...
the high winds...
the unsteady seas.
Choose to board the boat.
Now hold on...
and never let go.
[radio host] Happy 4th July.
If you're looking for that perfect burst of fireworks in the sky,
Colleen Malone has already done the groundwork for you.
Colleen and her team of experts have designed the show over LA's Dodger Stadium,
and she's here to talk to us now.
-So, Colleen, thanks for joining us. -[Colleen] Happy to be here.
[answering machine] Hey, you have reached Seth and...
[girl] And me, too!
-[Seth] Should they leave a message? -[girl] Leave a message, please.
[girl] Did I do good?
[recording] The mailbox is full and cannot accept any messages at this time. Goodbye.
[woman] Hey! Open up.
-Yeah, OK. Just hold on one second. -Can you open the door?
-Just don't touch the thing. -Can you open the door? I can't open it.
What? Oh, there you go.
-OK, we got it. -Whoo!
-Oh, can I have a little room? -Just hold on one second. I got it.
All right.
-Hi. -Hi. I thought you forgot about me.
-I'm 15 minutes early. -Is your brother coming tonight?
-Yeah. -Really?
I sent Ella the cutest little truck and he hasn't called me to thank me.
-You know where we can go? -We're not going to CVS.
Oh, come on. Please?
They're having this big make-up special.
You know, eyeliners and lip liners
and eyebrow liners.
Anything that has a "luh" sound in it is on sale, two for five.
You don't need... You have so much make-up.
-Maybe on the way back. -You just want to wander the aisles.
You don't get anything. It should be quality over quantity.
Are you going to put some earrings on later tonight?
Yeah, I have these on. I'm going to...
[stammers] But you have a different...
For the party tonight, are you putting on earrings? Maybe a little lipstick?
-Yeah. -Maybe we can get you a nice liner.
I'm going to... I'll put all the make-up on.
-You will? Oh, good. -I mean, I'm...
-It's a party. -No, I know.
I know what... I know what...
OK, fire her up.
[mother] Coming through, hot soup.
[man] Oh, excuse me.
[mother] Sorry.
-Whoa! -It's for Ella. Isn't that cute? -It's definitely a dog toy. -It's not a dog toy.
-It's definitely a dog toy. -It's not a dog toy. Um... There's a spot to blow all these up in the back, right?
Um... There's a spot to blow all these up in the back, right?
OK, great.
OK. Yeah, we need all this stuff.
Oh, how cute. That's so big. Don't you think that's good value?
[daughter] OK, don't. Don't, don't, don't.
-I don't think they're going to fit. -Oh, they will fit.
-Oh, God! Are you OK? -[laughs] Oh, my gosh!
[mother] Come on, you guys.
You little bastards. Get in there.
-[mother] Let's pull them through. -[daughter] Seriously, I've got to pee.
OK. All right. OK. Ah!
Oh, that looks good. OK.
[daughter] Mom!
Mom?
Mom?
That's great. Can you fill half of these with juice boxes? -My niece is coming. -Sure.
-My niece is coming. -Sure.
-Cups! -Killing it.
Hey, hey, hey. I owe you. I swear this time.
You know, there's an outlet over there. Thanks so much.
What's going on here? There's a drought in California.
-I was just going to turn it off. -OK.
Are these pig blankets tight enough for you?
Yeah.
-Yeah. -You're going to re-roll.
-She's going to re-roll those. -You guys are so mean. I...
I might... I might re-roll them.
Hey, Mom?
Mom!
[mutters] What is...
-I'm thinking this. -Yeah.
-Is that what you're wearing? -No.
Well, you don't need to... It's a good outfit, but no.
Oh, hold on. Your tag is out.
-Thank you. -OK.
Oh, my God. He will see the balloons from down the block.
Wait. What are you wearing, if not this?
-I have a thing laid out. Another outfit. -A thing?
I have a... It's cute. I think it's pretty cute. It's like a dress.
It's like a dress?
-It is a-- -Hold on.
I think maybe people might come into your room.
You can fold a couple of things.
Is this a shirt or a dress?
I think if you have to question what it is...
Don't think. One, two, three. Shirt or dress?
I mean, I think it could be either of those things.
If you have to ask yourself, maybe it's not the best choice. I don't know.
I need to ask myself.
-I just... I can't... -This is stressing you out.
-I just... I can't... -This is stressing you out. -[man] Hello! -Hey!
-Hey. -Hey, Dad.
You can see the balloons down the block.
I know. Will you say something to Mom? I just can't with her right now.
Yeah, sure. Yeah. Is Seth here?
-Wait. You were supposed to get him. -Was I?
-Definitely, you were. -Hey, Cam.
-Hi, Gar. -Hey.
Let's get this party started.
Yes.
Here we go.
Looks good.
Just peeling eggs. It's actually exhausting.
-Hell, yeah. Thank you. -[man] Sure.
-[Gary] I will go deal with your mother. -[daughter] Thank you.
[whispers] Your dad is so hot.
OK.
It's true.
Did that, like, make you uncomfortable growing up?
It was really hard.
It was a dress for a child. I looked it up.
Hm. What the fuck is that?
Um... What the fuck is this? -Yeah. -It's a sign I handcrafted.
No.
-Respect it. -No.
-Is this glue stick? -Yeah, this is glue stick. Yeah.
-You can pay people to do that for you. -You can.
-You can if you're a sucker. -For sure, yeah.
I don't know.
Oh, my gosh.
OK. You guys, Jack made it to drinks.
-Good -Yes.
You guys don't think he knows?
-Yeah. -No.
Yeah, I know that he doesn't know.
-Right, he better not know. -Uh-uh.
I am dying to see his cute fucking face when...
I can't even. I mean, I can't even. In my heart, I can't.
Fucking face.
The fireworks. It's going to be...
-It's almost too much. -It is.
It is almost too much.
OK. All right. OK. I'm going to go get the cake.
-I can do that. -No, I'm going to get the cake.
Then I'm going to get the tacos
before my mom starts telling me everyone will starve.
-OK. -OK.
Please stop eating everything.
This is a tiered thing.
-I worked hard on making these color-- -You're losing your mind. Go.
-Remove yourself from the premises. -We love you. Go!
-Call me if you need anything. -Have fun. We are covered.
-She's freaking out. -You're stressing her out.
I ate one of these.
-Can you peel or-- -Have you tasted these?
-Put that away. -Will you taste it?
[audiobook narrator] Chapter two.
You are on the same boat.
Notice how water has rotted the boat.
Promise yourself to fix it before you travel.
-Lost one. -[Gary] Yeah, it was my fault.
My fault. My fault. I got excited.
[chuckles] OK.
It's OK.
[mother] Katie, I hope you have more food than this.
Your friends are going to starve.
Yeah, Ma, I'm going.
[Gary] And get your brother for me on the way.
[Ella] Ding-dong!
[Seth] I'll be right there.
All right. Got your backpack? Your shoes?
Have you got your shoes?
My balloons.
I forgot my red balloon and my blue one.
I have two balloons.
Two red ones... -Yeah? -...and two blue.
-[Ella] Can you go get them? -[Katie] Are you OK?
Yeah.
Keep that there, and give you this guy.
Oh, yeah.
Kitty cat.
[Katie] This fucking thing just, like...
It's... It's a normal seat belt.
-Just click it in. -Maybe you could come back and help me.
I don't know why you're in the front. -Sorry. -Yeah.
I just can't get this.
I need more slack.
How do stupid people do this? I'm just...
-[Seth] Hi. Yeah. -OK. Are you in?
Can you say "Aunt Katie is  incompetent"?
-Can... Can you say "incompetent"? -[babbles] Incompetent.
[chuckles] Yeah, that's my girl.
-That's not good. -Incompetent. -[Seth] Exactly. -No, that's not a good thing to teach her.
-[Seth] Exactly. -No, that's not a good thing to teach her.
[Seth] How old is Jack?
He's thirty...
-Thirty-six. -...six.
He is a grown man.
Yeah, you're throwing a 36-year-old grown man a surprise party. That's...
It's supposed to be funny.
-Yeah. -And it's going to be.
It's... Yeah, it's going to be hilarious.
Great idea, and it's going to be executed.
[Seth] What's uh... What's this?
[Katie] Oh, Jack needs paper towels.
Man, Jack is such a... B-minus.
He's a B-minus?
Then you're definitely a D.
[scoffs] I would rather be a D than a fucking B-minus.
OK, I'm going to just ignore you now.
[woman] Dinner to go. Your order's ready.
-Does that look like everything? -Oh, that's perfect. Great.
Do you need help?
No, I've... I've got this.
-Thank you. -Mm-hm.
All right.
Come here. Come here.
Why don't you hold on to me?
Hold on to me. We're going to go. Yeah, that's perfect.
OK, here we go.
You've got my butt?
You've got my butt?
[Ella] Kitty cat.
Mom sent Ella a truck, and I guess you didn't call her to thank her for it.
-OK. -Well, it's because you didn't get it.
You didn't open it.
OK.
Well, you stopped opening your mail last time, too.
[chuckles] What? What?
Can you just... roll up your sleeve?
Just show me your arm.
-No. -Just show me your arm.
Can we not do this?
-Seth, just show me. -There's nothing to see.
Then we'll just go to my house, go to the party.
-This fucking hurts my feelings. -Just show me and we go to my house.
Can you trust me?
[muffled] How did this happen again?
[Seth] It's hard.
[Katie] It's OK.
It's OK.
I've got to take you to detox.
Yeah, I know.
[Ella] ♪ The wheels on the bus ♪
♪ Go round and round ♪
♪ Round and round ♪
♪ Round and round ♪
♪ The wheels on the bus ♪
♪ Go round, round and round ♪
♪ All through town... ♪
Can you put your seat belt on, please?
♪ The wheels on the bus ♪
♪ Go round and round ♪
♪ Round and round...
♪ Babies on the bus go ♪
Which one are we going to?
The shitty one.
[satnav] In 1.5 miles,
turn left onto Beverly Boulevard.
[Ella] Kitty cat.
Kitty cat.
I think we should drop her off at my house first.
-What? No. No, please. -I think we should take her to my house.
I can't see Mom like this. Please.
Look, I can't... I can't take ten days off of work.
-What? -I just... I can't.
I mean, why?
Why? Because people don't do that, all right?
I'll get fired.
I'll do... I'll do a four-day detox. That's it, though.
Just tell them Dad's sick or something. No one will question that.
Yes, of course they will. Katie, it's not that easy.
Just listen to me, please. Dad got me the job, all right?
They will call him, then he will know, so we're not doing that, OK?
[mutters] Jesus, you never listen.
[mutters] Oh, my God.
[Ella] "I need to drink some juice."
"Yum."
"Yummy.
Yummy."
"Yum."
If I'm gone ten days, Maggie will know and she won't let me see Ella.
Everyone's going to know.
I just wish you had told me.
Next time.
-That was a joke. -No, it was... That was hilarious.
-Yeah, you liked that? -I was, like, on the floor.
-You don't seem like you're on the floor. -I mean, if I wasn't driving...
Yeah?
...I would be just, like, done.
-That's very sweet of you to say. -Yeah, it brought down the house.
You should develop that into, like, a longer act.
With your encouragement, I might.
This actually is a pretty long act.
You've got at least...
what is it, a couple of years' worth of material here, right?
You're making me feel so warm right now.
Yeah, that's my job.
[Katie] Hey, girlie.
-Come here. Let me unbuckle you. -Kitty cat.
[Katie] All right, let's go.
Have you got your bunny?
All right, out.
Out, out, out. OK. Shut the door.
OK.
[Ella] Just be careful before the car comes.
[Katie] OK, yeah. Before the car comes, huh?
[Ella] Just be careful.
[Seth] Still looks like a crack house.
Well, you'll fit right in, right?
Funny.
Wait, wait, wait. She needs shoes.
She's fine.
Just... Just give me the keys. It will take two seconds.
I'll hold her.
Come on. I'm not going anywhere. I'm just going to the car.
-I'll hold her. You don't need to go. -Katie, it's... OK. All right, calm down.
Don't tell me to calm down. That's the worst thing you could say.
Don't make a thing of this, please.
I just think it's insane
that you picked this moment, of all moments, to be a parent.
And it's actually...
It's actually insane.
I don't understand why you get so pissed about the dumbest shit.
-What did you just say to me? -Nothing.
-[man] Hello. -Hi.
Hi. Um... Your insurance card?
[man] Can I help you?
Yeah. Um... Can we come inside?
I need some information first.
-Who's the patient? -[Seth] Me.
-Have you been here before? -Um... You bet he has.
And what are you detoxing from?
-I knew I should have dropped her off. -It's fine. Just give her to me.
-OK. -Come here, baby. Come here.
OK. Um...
-Well-- -We'll be... We'll be right here.
OK.
-[man] Ma'am? -Yeah.
Um... He's on heroin.
-What kind of insurance does he have? -Um... Anthem.
Unfortunately, we don't take Anthem.
But he's been here before.
Does he have a new job since the last time?
Yeah.
Then we probably took his last job's insurance.
OK, but you can still admit him, right? We have an outpatient program.
No, he needs to be in for ten days for it to work.
[man] OK.
Not that it's never worked, but um...
I can admit him if you want to pay cash.
-How much is it? -It's $5,000 for the ten-day program.
OK, just give me a minute.
Credit card. They don't take your insurance.
But my credit's fucked. You know that.
[Katie] Seth, tell me what to do right now.
Can you pay for it?
You still owe me five grand from last time. [scoffs] How long have you waited to play that card?
[scoffs] How long have you waited to play that card? -That's what I'm doing. -I bet you think about that all the time.
-That's what I'm doing. -I bet you think about that all the time. -Every once in a while-- -All you fucking people, man.
-Every once in a while-- -All you fucking people, man.
-Who? -Who? You, Mom, Dad. It's like--
-Yeah, that's so lovely. -There are always strings attached.
-Strings attached?! -Gross.
The string attached is that you stay fucking clean, not that you achieve greatness.
OK, OK.
The bar is so low that there's not a bar.
It's just, like, the ground, so...
Why don't you ask Jack?
You want me to ask my boyfriend to pay for your detox?
[grunts] I don't know.
Who are you?
I'm a piece of shit.
Ma'am?
Yeah.
Oh, hey, hey, hey!
Hey, hey, hey! Stop, stop, stop!
[Ella] We need to go get the cat.
[Ella] No, no, no!
Told you she needed fucking shoes.
-Ma'am? -Yeah.
American Group takes Anthem. They're downtown.
OK.
I don't think I can go downtown right now.
I'm throwing my boyfriend a surprise birthday party tonight.
And I'm... I-I just want you to know, I did hear myself say that out loud.
So...
Did you want me to call American, let them know you're coming?
-OK, Tammy, right? -Mm-hm.
OK, so you're just going to take him to one location. That's it, OK? Don't stop.
I just... I can't stress how important that is, OK?
I'm sorry. She talks like that to everyone.
I'm really sorry I'm not taking you myself.
-I know you don't care, but this party-- -No, I really don't.
OK.
-Do you want to say goodbye? -Goodbye.
OK, go and say goodbye.
Hey. Hey, monkey.
Hey.
Daddy's just feeling a little sick, but I'm going to go get better, OK?
[whispers] Hey.
I love you more than the whole wide world.
Can I get a kiss? Can I get a kiss?
Thanks, sweetheart.
Can I give you kisses?
[Seth] OK.
So...
All right, can we... Let's go. Can we go?
[Cameron] Hi.
What the fuck took so long?
Where's the cake?
OK, still have to get the cake. Can you watch Ella? She's in the car.
-[Bianca] Your phone is ringing. -You're not meant to leave babies in cars.
She's sleeping, it's fine. I got it.
-[Bianca] All right. Where's Seth? -He stayed home.
-Your phone is still ringing. -I've got it.
-I'll just take it. -I have it. I've got it.
[Bianca] OK.
All right.
[audiobook narrator] Chapter three.
You're here again.
You board the same boat.
Admit to yourself that you do not know how to drive this boat.
Tell yourself you are the only person who can drive this boat.
Now push off... and paddle.
You look good.
Thank you.
Better.
[chuckles] OK.
That was so close.
So close.
-Oh, is that Ella? -[Cameron] She's asleep.
-[Bianca] She's napping. -Where's Seth?
Um... He went home. Yeah. He had to... Can you just give me one second, please?
-OK. Are you getting the cake? -Yeah, I'm going to grab it now.
-So just take her with you. -OK.
-She's passed out. -Sorry, can you say that one more time?
-[Bianca] Yeah, it's fine. -[Cameron] Yeah, let's just get a drink.
It's fine.
[mother] Everything's OK, though, right?
-Well, did she say where he went? -[Cameron] Yeah.
[satnav] You are on the fastest route to American Drug Rehab Center.
In 100 feet, turn right onto Santa Monica Boulevard.
[audiobook narrator] You are on the same boat.
[satnav] Keep right.
[audiobook] Notice the engine.
Try the wheel.
You cannot drive...
and you cannot paddle...
and think that you...
might... drown.
[Katie] No, he was on Oxy. Now it's just heroin.
-[woman] I understand. -Don't say that you understand.
It's, like, the worst thing that you can say.
-I understand that you're angry. -Oh, my God. I'm going to lose my mind.
-I understand. -You say that, and you keep saying it!
-I understand. -Seth, are you OK? Where's the bathroom?
There's a bed in Pasadena. Hey, sir!
Come here, come here, come here. Hey. OK.
[stammers] Take her away. Get away. Get away.
It's OK, baby. It's all right.
Ella. Ella, it's OK.
[satnav] Starting route to Pasadena Recovery Center.
[Seth] No, I can't! I won't make it! I won't make it!
In 0.2 miles, turn left onto Ferris Street.
-It's OK. Ella, it's OK. Look at me. -Come on, man. You've got to let me out.
Just... Just fucking let me out.
Shut the lights!
But she's not answering.
Yeah. Well, I'm sure she'll be fine.
OK. Where are you?
[Seth] It hurts so fucking...
It fucking hurts.
Ella, baby, can you sing me a song? Can you sing "Wheels on the Bus"?
[Seth] Just... Just take me to get some.
I'll fucking... I'll go anywhere you want. Please.
-Daddy! -Please. Just take me. I'll go.
[satnav] In 0.6 miles, turn right onto Los Angeles Street.
Katie, please. Please. Oh, no.
That's too far. It's too far.
[Katie] All I do is lie for you.
I'll be... I'll be fine. I just need a little bit. Just take me there.
I can't. I can't.
I'm sorry. I don't want to fucking do this to you.
I don't want to do this to you, but I have to...
[slurs] I'll be... It will be fine.
I'll be fine. I just need a...
I just need a little bit.
Katie, please!
OK, they're here. They're here.
[whispers] Down, down. Shh.
[all yell] Surprise!
[Jack] What is going on?
-Is this my party? -[Bianca] Yes!
[Jack] Oh, my God. Wait, wait.
Where are you? Where is she?
She's um... There was... There was a cake thing.
[Bianca] A problem with the cake, but she's coming.
-Where is she? -No, literally, she is getting a cake.
I cannot believe she would do this. I have never been surprised before.
-Are you serious? -I know!
We gave you your first surprise?
-Oh, my gosh. -We did, yeah.
She is...
She's going to be so pissed is what she's going to be.
[Seth sobs] I just need a little bit.
Katie, please.
I won't do it again. I won't do it. This is the last time.
This is the last time. I fucking swear this is the last time.
Just a little bit. I just need a little bit.
[Katie] It's OK.
It's OK.
[party guests] Surprise!
[Jack] What is going on?
-[Jack] Is this my party? -[Bianca] Yes!
[Jack] Oh, my God. Wait, wait.
Where are you? Where is she? Where is she?
Tell me where to go.
Get some at 7th and San Pedro.
Seventh and San Pedro.
I can't...
[audiobook narrator] Chapter four.
[satnav] Make a left onto Towne Street.
[audiobook] The boat is filling with water.
[satnav] Re-routing.
[audiobook] Do anything to save it.
[satnav] Make a legal U-turn.
[audiobook] The boat is all you have.
[satnav] Turn around.
[audiobook] Do anything to keep it afloat.
[satnav] Turn around.
Turn around.
[Ella] I want... I want to turn around.
Can we turn around?
[Seth] OK. All right, slow down.
[stammers] What are you doing, man? Fucking slow...
[Katie] No. I'm going.
You're staying in the fucking car.
-What? You're fucking crazy. No. -You won't come back.
No, you're not fucking going.
[Katie] If I leave you in the car with her, you'll stay.
Right?
[Seth] Six black.
[Katie] That's what I say?
[man] Come over here!
[Seth] Orange tent.
Ask for Pete.
He uh... He looks like um... Chuck Palley.
Who is Chuck Palley?
The guy who worked at the 7-Eleven on Victory.
I need six black...
please.
-[Seth] You always said he was ugly. -[Katie] I never said that.
You say shit like that about everyone.
[Ella] The door's open!
Close the door!
[stammers] Don't look.
Don't look.
[Katie] OK. It's OK.
[Ella] Daddy.
Daddy.
[slurs] Did you get it?
-Yeah. -Let me see.
Let me see.
[Ella] I want to get out.
[Katie] He took them out of his mouth.
[Ella] I want to go home.
You can't eat them.
Am I... Am I supposed to eat these?
[Ella] I want to go home.
I mean, I-I guess I didn't think about that.
There's a guy, he's under a blue tarp.
He sells needles for a buck. Can you--
-I'm not going back out there. -Yes.
No.
[Ella] I think I don't like this car.
All right, listen.
I need you to take me to a pharmacy...
before I die in your fucking car, OK?
OK, I just need a second,
because I'm just a bit overwhelmed with what just happened.
-Please go to the pharmacy. -What we should do--
Go to the fucking pharmacy, Katie!
[audiobook] Chapter five.
There is no boat.
There is no engine.
There is no paddle.
Admit to yourself that there is only you...
and the water around you.
You are sinking.
You are drowning.
You are touching rock bottom.
OK.
So, we're here now.
[weakly] Twenty-nine gauge, 1cc, short tip.
Please.
[Seth] I'm sorry.
You're a fucking piece of shit.
I think I need to go pee-pee, Dad.
I need to go pee-pee,
or something.
-Hello. -Hi.
Have you used this medication before?
It's my birth control, so, yeah, I-I have.
I use it, like, all the time.
[Ella] I've got to poop!
Oh, my God. That's sad.
[Ella] I've got to poop.
Does she need to be changed?
[weakly] Yeah.
[pharmacist] Picking up? Last name?
No. Uh...
I need to buy one needle...
and everything that comes with it...
please.
I don't understand.
Short tip, or something.
They come in a ten-pack.
That's convenient.
You having a good night?
Yeah, I'm having a great night.
-Seems like it. -Yeah. Thanks so much.
[Ella] One, two, three.
Can I have the bathroom key, as well?
Please?
Ma'am, I'm going to need you to give me the key to the bathroom.
Give me the fucking key. Give me the key to the fucking bathroom.
I'm going to need you to bring that back, if you think you can manage that?
I'm sorry. I'll bring back the key.
OK, up we go. Up we go.
[mutters] OK.
Hey, I'm going to change that diaper, all right?
Come on.
OK, let's change this.
[Ella] I don't... That's dirty. That's dirty.
[Ella] I don't... That's dirty. That's dirty. [Katie] Yeah, that's dirty.
[Katie] OK.
OK.
OK.
Do you think... OK.
I can't do that, right? I can't do that.
Could we change your diaper standing up?
-Yeah. -Yeah?
OK.
We want to take that.
OK. Ready? Let's take it off.
Here we go.
OK.
OK. OK.
[gasps] I'm going to throw it away. Hold this up.
Stand right there.
Oh, my goodness.
OK. OK.
Here we go. Here we go.
Come back here.
OK, let's put this on.
Here we go, here we go, here we go.
[Katie's voice echoes] OK, look at me. OK.
It's OK. It's OK.
Ready?
Hold the bunny up. Hold the bunny up.
Don't want to get the bunny messy.
OK.
I know what I'm doing.
OK. There we go.
We got it, right?
Do we got it?
Do we got it?
Yeah, hold that up.
OK.
Here we go. Up on here.
All right.
OK.
Please don't do too much.
Only stupid people OD.
Great. That's great.
[Katie] OK, wipe this off.
OK.
I'm going take them off real quick, OK?
OK. We're just going to...
Oh, gosh!
In there.
[Ella] Are you OK?
You're OK.
[Seth] Is that a little monkey I hear?
How did a cute little monkey sneak in here?
I got... shit everywhere.
[scoffs] We don't care about no stinky poop, do we?
We love poop, don't we?
You want to climb on the tree? You want to climb on the tree?
♪ We love poop ♪
♪ Yes, yes, we do ♪
♪ We would eat it all the time If you let us... ♪
[Katie] What are you doing? Seth, what are you doing?
Seth, what are you doing?
Stop.
Seth, stop.
[Seth] Daddy hurt his hand. Can you kiss it?
Can you kiss it? Thank you.
Do you know what time it is?
Put your arms out.
It's chopper time!
Let's chopper out!
It's time to chopper out!
[Ella] Chopper out!
[Ella] Chopper out!
Chopper out!
Chopper landing.
Let's go. Let's go. We want to play.
No. It's just been, like, such a... crazy night.
The cake took so long, and we got a flat.
[Ella] I'm going to eat them.
He bit me!
[Katie] Hold on, sweetie. I can't hear you.
[Seth] You've got to bite him back!
-You've got to bite him! -I love you, too. -Save us, quickly! -No, I'll be home really, really soon.
-Save us, quickly! -No, I'll be home really, really soon.
[Seth] Yes, you bit his head off!
You saved humanity!
Oh, my gosh!
You're my hero.
You're my hero, you know that?
[chuckles] Oh, shit.
[Katie] What?
OK, you've got to... you've got to promise not to kill me.
What?
Are you fucking kidding me?
-Are you fucking kidding me right now? -I don't want it. You take it.
I'm sure she'll be very happy to see you.
Fuck you.
Language! There's a child present.
[pharmacist] Oh, no.
-I have the key. -I don't care.
She's going to get in so much trouble.
You don't want me to just hand you the key right now?
No, because we're closed right now.
Are you fucking kidding me?
No, I'm not kidding you. You can go now.
[Seth] They locked the door. They locked her out. She is not going to be happy.
Oh, sh-- Yes.
Yes! Let's go! Let's go!
Chopper out! Chopper out! Let's go!
I got you.
[Katie stammers] OK. Oh, fuck!
That's right. That's right. We are choppers.
-Go! Go! -Put your seat belt on!
Shit!
[Seth laughs] Oh! Drive! Just fucking drive!
-You're a mess! Go! -OK, OK, OK!
[Ella] Chopper out!
[Jack] Hey.
-She's fine. -[Gary] Oh, you got through?
-Did you talk to her? -She's with Seth, and she's fine.
-She told me he went home. -Don't do this. Don't.
-Can you call her back? -No, don't make him call her back.
-She sounded fine. -I want to hear the sound of her voice.
Please, just call her back.
Yeah. Yeah, of course.
[Katie] Dad was, like, driving 90 miles an hour up the five,
and I had to stick my head out the window to puke.
You really don't remember? This was, like, a big moment.
[Seth] I don't think so. Keep going.
[Katie] So I puke out the window and everything just...
[Seth] Comes back on the car?
[Katie] Came back on the whole side of the car, and they couldn't see anything.
[Seth] Oh, yeah.
[Katie] We get to Santa Barbara and Dad gets out.
[Seth] He was fucking pissed.
[Katie] "Who the fuck puked all over the side of my car?"
I just don't understand how he thought someone else puked on his car.
[Seth] Dad always says the exact same thing.
[Katie] What?
You know. Think about it.
All right, yeah.
[both] "Suck it up, walk it off, grow a pair."
And then let them dangle.
I don't remember that part.
I think that's a new addition.
Maybe.
Dad doesn't joke with me any more. It's weird.
[satnav] In 1.3 miles, turn left onto North Figueroa Street,
then merge onto CA 110 North towards Pasadena.
I know what Mom will say, too.
What?
She'll tell me I broke her heart.
She really loves to tell me that.
Hey, Ella.
You want to see monkey brain?
Like that monkey brain?
A kitty! A kitty!
A cheetah.
[Seth] I think I can do it this time.
It feels different, you know?
Yeah.
I know what I've got to do and I'm just going to do it.
[satnav] In 200 feet, keep left.
Oh, look, they're right over my house. Have you ever been over on the fourth?
No, I don't think so.
[satnav] Keep left.
[Ella] And a blue one.
Should we go check them out?
Let's do it. It will be fun. Come on, let's do it.
Come on, let's go check them out,
and then... and then we can go to that place in Pasadena.
-I really don't think it's a good idea. -It's not going to make a difference.
I'll be fine. I promise.
-Really? -Really, really. Yeah, I swear.
[Katie] I've got to go get the cake.
Is that a yes?
Fireworks?
We're going to see fireworks, baby!
Yes! Let's go eat those fireworks.
I'm sick of fries and burger.
I want fireworks.
Oh! I'm going to eat a pink one...
and a blue one,
and I might even dip my fries in the fireworks.
♪ Pink fireworks ♪
♪ And blue fireworks ♪
♪ And pink and blue ♪
♪ At the same time, fireworks ♪
If we go, you have to promise not to sing any more.
I cannot do anything of the sort.
You sing the same song with different words.
-You just list things. -I will attempt.
-It's just you listing items and things. -I cannot make any definitive promises.
That's it.
Jealousy does not look good on you. It doesn't.
I'm so jealous of these song skills, right?
You know what? You're either born with it or you're not.
-I'm not worth it. -I can't even take credit.
It's just genes.
-Yeah, it skips a sibling. -Exactly.
♪ And blue fireworks and pink ♪
You're such a loser.
I can do it falsetto if you want.
-Oh, yeah? -Yeah.
[falsetto] ♪ And pink fireworks ♪
♪ And blue fireworks ♪
♪ At the same time as a big... ♪
Oh, my God.
Who are you?
I'm your brother, and you love me so much.
This is not good. This is bad news.
All right. We'll have one red and one white, please.
[audiobook narrator] Chapter six.
There's a boat in the middle of the ocean.
Tell yourself that you can drive the boat.
Even after you've capsized...
tell yourself that no one will notice.
Um... Just give me a second.
[Jack] It's me.
Look what I found.
-Hey. -He's here.
Hey, Seth. It's good to see you.
Hi, Ella.
[Jack] Did you um...
lie to me before?
Because I feel like there is something... really something going on.
[grunts] Let's get that firework.
I want to get up there and touch the firework.
[Jack] Tell me where you were and what happened. I don't feel like we need to talk about it this minute.
-You are scaring me. -OK, just...
[mother] Come on, Seth. Slow down, OK?
Seth.
So, what, is he high right now, or...?
-Why did you ask me if you already knew? -I wanted to hear it from you.
I wasn't sure.
Seth, she's going to hit her head. Honey, please. She could--
Mom, we can't slow down if we're going to chopper up to the fireworks!
We can't stop! We can't stop!
We can't stop! We can't stop!
How do you expect to have a relationship if you keep stuff from me?
-It's not about you. -I know. I know it's not about me.
I'm not keeping anything from you. I'm just, like... I am trying to--
If you say you are compartmentalizing, I swear to God...
[mother] It's me and Dad.
[Katie] We should let my parents in.
-Daddy! -Juice!
Your mom thinks...
I knew it.
-[Gary] Katie, come here. -I'm fine.
I'm fine.
OK, I'm an adult and Seth is an adult, and there's just nothing you guys can do.
There's nothing anyone can do for him, babe.
[Katie] You want me to just leave him?
I wish he would just suck it up already and get over it. I really do.
[mother] It breaks my heart every time.
Yeah, I think that he... knows both of those things.
[audiobook narrator] Chapter seven.
[audiobook narrator] Chapter seven. [Ella] A red one.
Admit to yourself that you chose to walk down that dock.
Admit that you chose to get on that boat,
even though you knew you couldn't drive it.
Admit that you saw the rot and never fixed it...
that you had a chance to stay on dry land...
but instead...
[Jack] It's OK.
...you boarded the boat again.
[Jack] It's OK.
[audiobook] Admit that you never asked for help...
even when it was offered to you.
But one day...
you're going to miss something.
Something that is actually important.
And now... let go.
[Ella] Daddy?
Dada?
[Cameron] Ella, come here. What are you doing, hey?
What?
Yes.
-[Bianca] Hey. -Hey. Where's Seth? I don't know. I haven't seen him since uh...
[Gary] Cutie!
-[mother] Honey. Katie. Katie. -No, no. I got it. I got it.
Seth?
Excuse me. I'm sorry. Is Seth...?
Did you bring me cake?
-No! -Ouch!
So, was that a yes or a no on the cake?
When I'm with you, all I see is you.
What song is that?
♪ I close my eyes ♪
Stop it.
♪ And all I see is you ♪
Stop.
♪ I close my eyes... ♪
Stop it! Jesus, stop!
God, you suck me in and I can't get out.
I-I'm not even trying to be funny, but I'm pretty sure that's a song, too.
-Don't. -You don't want me to sing it?
No, I don't.
You promised.
OK.
-You do this every fucking time. -All right. Just calm down.
Don't tell me to calm down. It makes me insane!
I didn't mean that. OK, I'm sorry.
Did something happen... to you?
Did something happen to you to make you like this?
No, nothing happened.
We came from the same place, so...
Yeah, look at you.
[laughs] Wow! Look at that girl right there.
I have done everything for you.
OK.
Wasted my whole fucking life because I'm always... somewhere with you.
Yeah, all right, man. Let's... Let's go.
-Where? -To the... the Pasadena place.
I'm ready. Let's do it. You can drive me now.
[audiobook] Chapter eight.
We're on the same boat.
You're on the same dock. You board the same boat.
The boat is filling with water. Admit to yourself.
I feel like I'm having a heart attack.
You're not. No, you're not having a heart attack.
Notice the gathering clouds.
I can't breathe right now.
Katie. Katie, you're breathing.
-You're breathing right now. -I feel like I'm drowning.
-Everything's going to be fine. -How is it going to be fine?!
You are drowning. You are touching rock bottom.
...how to drive this boat. You are on the same dock.
You are sinking. You are drowning.
...this boat. You are sinking. You are touching rock bottom.
You are drowning.
You are sinking.
You are drowning.
You will swim.
You are touching rock bottom.
I need you to go to detox.
[Seth] I will.
And then to rehab.
I-I will, I promise.
[Katie] You need to get out!
-I want you to be clean so bad. -Yeah, I know.
-[Seth] I know. Me, too. -You really have to do it this time.
Katie, I'm going to do it. I-I can. I can do it.
I know.
But I can't take you.
[audiobook] You are swimming.
You have to go on your own.
What?
I'm sorry.
[audiobook] Up.
Up.
Breathe.
Breathe.
[party guests] ♪ Happy birthday to you! ♪
[audiobook] Chapter ten.
There will always be a boat at the end of a dock.
But tell yourself that you can choose...
Don't be insistent, move on to another group.
Move fluidly and be brief and concise
when answering questions, without being too familiar.
Some of my guests are a bit special, you know what I mean.
If you drop a tray, withdraw quietly, others have been assigned
to apologize and clean up.
And finally, no accessories.
No rings, piercings, bracelets or earrings.
I'm sure you'll do an excellent job.
Thank you all.
Wine?
White, please.
Sorry!
Sorry.
Sorry, sorry.
-That's okay. -Are they disturbing you?
-No, I love dogs. -Really?
-Can I feed him? -Yes, but he'll love you forever.
Even better.
-Should I intervene? -No, it's fine.
They must like you, normally they're not so affectionate.
Don't take that bottle.
Bring it to me, please.
Hello, Ricardo. How are you?
Hello. Would you like to have a drink with us?
No, thank you, I have an interview.
I'll see you next week. Nice to see you.
I ordered you tea.
And a bottle of sparkling water, please.
You don't want anything?
Can you take off your glasses?
Sorry.
Sorry!
I don't think they'll let you smoke here.
They forbid it but nobody notices if you do.
Unless someone complains, of course.
Sure.
There's always one of those in a place like this.
Your family doesn't know, do they?
No.
You've never told anyone?
No.
It's weird.
What is?
Almost not existing.
It's weird.
How did you find me?
It's easy to find a vain person.
How did you get into my house?
If I tell you, you'll probably try to retaliate against someone
-who isn't at fault. -Only to know if it was difficult.
Not at all. I could have massacred everyone.
I'm joking.
Excuse me, ma'am. You can't smoke here.
You see? She said I could, I'm sorry.
-No, you can't. -Okay, I'm putting it out.
What do you want?
I need you to spend ten days with me.
What?
That.
Ten days.
It's not a threat.
You can think it over if you want.
Thank you.
What's left over is the tip.
How much?
She doesn't want money.
How could you go and meet with her without telling me?
-For God's sake, Anabel. -I wanted to resolve it myself.
What does she want?
To spend ten days with me.
Where?
I don't know.
I got up and left before she could tell me.
-Did she threaten you? -No.
How old is she?
Forty-two or forty three, maybe.
Her name is Chiara.
She's my daughter and I abandoned her when she was eight years old.
Are you sure that it's her?
Yes.
Why?
I see myself in her.
You can go in, they'll be with you in a moment.
Would you like anything? Coffee?
No.
Please, take a seat.
We called you because we'd like to clarify some things about your...
peculiar request.
To spend ten days with Mrs. Barnuevo.
Yes.
For example, what's the agenda scheduled for the period you'd be spending together?
-Agenda? -Yes.
I mean a calendar of...
Let's say, activities.
There is none.
You're not going to do anything?
We'll do something.
We'd like to know if there's a quicker solution.
Financial compensation, for example.
No.
Any other kind?
No.
I'd like to know what you're getting out of this.
Understand that it's a little strange for us.
Accepting that you appear out of nowhere after 30 years
only to spend a few days on vacation with my wife.
If I'd known how to find her sooner I wouldn't have waited so long.
What if she says no?
I don't know, I haven't considered that.
Why not?
Because of what we are.
We've prepared a contract stipulating that in exchange
you renounce any relationship with Mrs. Barnuevo.
It's simply a way to make sure
that there won't be any more requests like this in the future.
You can take it and read it at your leisure.
That won't be necessary.
Anything else?
There wasn't a restaurant with better parking options?
You'd have more options if you arrived on time for once.
We went ahead and ordered for all three of us.
I'll order something for myself.
We have something important to tell you.
Are you separating?
No, it's not that.
One of you is sick?
No, Anabel is going to be away for ten days.
And we wanted to tell you.
Where are you going?
It's a matter I can't resolve myself
and she's going to handle it.
What matter?
Please!
Why are you telling me?
You never do.
I have another daughter who I haven't seen since she was eight.
And she's asked me to spend a few days together.
Are you both crazy?
You sound like you've lost your minds.
What if she wants to kill you? No, sweetie...
Everything's under control.
Would you ever have told me if she hadn't shown up?
Or would I never have found out?
We'll discuss that later on.
Will you excuse me?
I'm dying for a cigarette.
Why haven't you seen each other in all this time?
She was raised by her father.
Why?
You abandoned her?
Yes.
Then, you know...
Be nice to her.
How is Mathieu?
Seeing my father isn't part of the deal.
Don't worry.
How is he?
Well...
He's dead.
What happened?
He smoked too much, you know.
He's buried in the town cemetery if you want to visit him.
Who lives here?
Me.
Why?
I don't know.
Did you expect it to be abandoned?
I don't know.
Maybe an altar in your honor...
Please.
Pour the wine.
Do you prefer to cook or do you want me to?
If you want, we can both do it.
How about we share duties for now?
All right.
All right.
-You don't have another glass? -No, I don't drink.
I've forbidden myself.
You can light the fireplace if you want.
Otherwise we'll freeze during dinner.
There's no signal in this area because of the mountain behind us.
That's okay.
The normal phone works, it's over there.
You can call your husband if you want.
That's okay, maybe later.
-So he won't worry... -Why would he?
Tell him I seem normal.
That it doesn't look like I want to kill you.
How did you get so popular?
My husband's career led me into that world.
Right.
And you thought that enough time had passed.
This is impossible, the wood is wet.
For what?
For me to forget you.
How did you meet your husband?
What's his name?
Bernabé.
Bernabé.
How did you meet him?
When I left, well...
I went back to school and he came to teach an economics class
at the university.
We went out for drinks after with the group.
And we watched each other.
And later he took me aside to ask me out for dinner sometime.
What does he do?
He's a businessman.
-But he was rich before that, right? -Well,
his family.
So he chose you.
Like rich people do.
No.
He's not like that, he has values...
What about your daughter?
What does she do?
Besides training dogs.
She takes good photos.
She has a lot of followers online.
Brands pay her to upload photos with their products.
We're sending her to the United States.
By mail?
What?
You make her sound like a package.
Does she bother you?
She picked the school.
And who picked the country?
And you?
What?
What do you do?
I didn't...
I never finished a degree.
I didn't specialize in anything,
lousy jobs,
average relationships...
Nothing stands out.
It's not to make you feel guilty, I just...
I'd love to have things to be proud of, but...
there's nothing.
Personal achievements don't always appear on a resumé.
An expert in protocol.
I almost bought it.
I don't know where the limit is in this situation.
Don't worry.
Tonight doing the dishes is enough.
Good night.
I thought you were away until the end of the month.
It went faster than I expected.
The restoration course went well?
It wasn't worth the trouble.
I thought it would be easier.
You know I'm too impatient for long-term things.
Wait, don't move.
Go on.
Natasha!
Hi!
Natasha...
Come here, pretty flower!
Hi! Hi, Natasha.
Why does she growl at me when I serve myself alcohol?
She hates people who drink.
It's something between us.
Pretty!
Thank you.
See you soon.
You know where to find me.
Are you from around here?
It's not safe if you don't know the way.
No. I haven't been here for ages.
Then you shouldn't go any further.
The forest is dangerous after The Rock.
The Rock?
A lot of people get lost there.
Thank you.
Come here.
Down.
Stay.
Down.
There.
Come here.
Are you okay?
Yes.
And that dog?
It's a female.
She fell in a well and I got her out.
You went down a well? Yes.
I heard her crying for days and I couldn't find her.
But today I did. Right, beautiful?
But how did you get down by yourself?
With ropes.
It wasn't dangerous, it wasn't very deep.
Look, grab that hose. Help me wash her off.
Can I change? I'm not dressed properly.
Just turn it on and spray, you won't get wet.
Here, it's okay.
Stay over there so you won't get wet.
Go on.
Don't be scared, it's okay.
Good, that's it.
That's it.
You were scared, weren't you, sweetie?
Did you think nobody would come find you?
That you were going to be left alone in that hole?
Huh, sweetie?
Beautiful, beautiful.
Rinse my hair a bit.
That's where I have more.
It's dried.
Okay, there. That's enough.
Let's finish rinsing her off.
Hold her.
Hold her here.
Her collar, that's it.
Okay.
I told you I wanted to change.
Careful.
Not in my face.
Please!
Not in my face!
I said not in my face! You're hurting me, damn it!
Come on, it's no big deal.
Life in the country, woman.
Come here.
Is it going to be like this the whole time?
What?
The little games, to see if I can take it.
Lighten up, it was a joke.
Is it because of your dress?
-I'll pay for it if you want. -What do you mean?
It's expensive, right? Your dress.
It's a gift.
A nice gift.
From your husband?
Yes.
How much did it cost?
I don't know. I don't ask how much a gift costs.
Right.
But I bet you calculate how much people spend on you to see
how much they love you.
It would bother you if someone gave you a cheap dress...
Not at all.
Right.
Hey, you.
What should we call you?
Do you like Juliet?
Like my favorite song.
Do you like Juliet?
No?
How about Natasha?
Yes. Natasha.
Natasha. Then that's it. Natasha.
Gorgeous.
I'm going to town.
Do you need anything?
What's she like?
Actually we don't spend much time together.
She gives me free days and I don't even see her.
Yesterday she brought a dog she found and made me wash it.
It lives with us now.
We named it Natasha.
I'd understand if you never forgave me for this.
I already forgave you.
A long time ago.
How long ago?
I've known for years.
I'm sorry.
I didn't know how to handle it, that's why I never said anything.
We can talk about it later.
Glad to see you're having fun.
I thought you were outside.
Have you got the keys?
What?
The car keys.
Yeah, sure.
I'm going out.
You look very pretty.
Where are you going?
Don't wait up for me.
Why did you give me an Italian name?
Back then I think this actor had a daughter...
I can't remember his name.
He always wore a suit and sunglasses.
He was in that movie with the tobacconist.
You know who I mean?
Well, that's what he named his daughter.
Is it going too slow?
It's going too slow.
Anabel!
You got off while it was moving? That's dangerous!
I always thought that ride was crap.
Just as well you liked good movies, you could have ruined my life.
Famous names ruin many people's lives.
I thought you didn't drink.
I don't.
Just tonight, for the fair.
Are you happy? With your family?
Being popular, helping people altruistically and all that?
So many questions!
You know me, I have that thing where I can't concentrate.
I don't understand.
Yeah.
Attention problems, I get distracted.
All I did as a kid was climb.
You were a quiet girl.
No.
Not after.
I failed subjects.
And I lost toys on purpose. I'd climb trees...
as high as I could and stay there.
You haven't answered me.
Are you happy?
My husband knew you existed.
For years.
And you found out today?
To Marcello Mastroianni.
I'll let you ask me a question. Any question you want.
I promise to answer without complaining.
Does anyone else know?
Know what? About this trip.
Like who?
I don't know.
-I'm going to dance. -I'm sorry.
I really wanted to know something else.
I'm sorry.
Please, let's go home!
Let go!
Who is she? What does she want?
I don't know her.
I don't know important people.
I don't want to dance anymore.
More?
-Chiara? -No.
I'm going to die!
No, sweetie. It's only the alcohol.
I don't want to die! I don't want to die...
Do you want to go to bed?
No.
You came back?
Whore.
Looking for something?
I don't want to disturb you.
No, tell me.
Several years ago my husband and I met a man who lived here.
We heard he passed away.
He lived in a house up there, past the forest.
Mister Mathieu?
Yes.
He isn't dead. He lives in Paris with his wife.
He used to come often to see his daughter who still lives in the house.
I know her. I can take you if you want.
That's okay. I only knew her father.
Thank you.
You made tea? Yes.
How are you feeling?
Better, thank you.
Have you eaten anything? A little.
Only a little? You must be starving.
Why?
You've been sleeping for two days.
-Isn't today Saturday? -No, it's Sunday.
Sunday?
Damn.
Sunday afternoon.
Is something wrong?
No.
Where are you?
Here.
Come in.
Oh, a movie!
No, they're only slides, sorry.
-I thought they were extinct. -Yes, they are.
Do you want to know why I left?
Over time I've gotten more curious about knowing
what you were thinking when you did it.
Do you remember what you did that day before you left?
No.
I do.
You put on make-up.
You left...
You left your make-up out.
Like you were in a hurry, on the table.
I see.
Stop for a second.
Go back one.
Another one.
How is that possible?
Because that's me, pregnant with you.
But you're right next to me and you're...
the same age I was there.
How is that possible?
There was a time I experimented a lot.
No, it's wonderful.
It's like a temporal paradox.
How did you do it?
It's just a lousy cut and paste job...
No, no.
No, there's insight, perspective.
An idea, a yearning.
You tripping out. No, no.
How old were you there?
I don't know.
Your face is made for a magazine cover.
No, that's heroine.
What do you mean? It's heroine.
But not anymore.
Back then, I'm clean now.
It was a teenage phase.
You fall in love and he asks you to do it for him, then later...
you can't stop and...
Anyway, that's enough temporal paradox.
I want to apologize...
No, I don't want you to apologize.
Then what do you want?
Why am I here?
I don't feel well.
What do you feel?
That the photos are coming to life.
Then let them.
I was there.
Your father and I were there.
That's not true.
We had to lie to everyone.
Nobody found out. Ever.
What was it like?
I can't explain it.
You have to live it.
I hear everything.
Anabel.
What?
Are you listening?
Of course.
A few months ago I was told that...
that things might not go well for me.
Is someone there?
Is someone there?
Chiara?
You're sick?
If you're still hallucinating eat another lump of sugar.
It brings you back down.
That's it, isn't it?
That's why I'm here.
You need me.
I wanted you to give me a hand with the decor.
What have you got?
Is it fatal?
You'd better go to bed.
Are you going to die?
I hope so.
Reaching 90 must totally suck.
What age do you think is a good limit?
I don't know.
Say one.
I don't know, whatever comes to mind.
Eighty-five.
Right. Eighty-five.
Do you want me to take care of you?
You want me to stay a few more days, as long as you want?
Tell me what you want me to do.
Don't get all mushy, I feel like spitting at you.
I understand that you're angry.
You don't understand anything.
A woman who abandons her 8-year-old daughter doesn't understand anything.
her 8-year-old daughter doesn't understand anything.
She doesn't understand shit.
Someone who leaves her by this window waiting for her to come back
for the rest of her life doesn't understand anything!
I get drunk sometimes and sit here for hours.
Hours and hours, I'm still here!
I've been here since I was eight years old, you jerk!
I'm sorry.
Shit, it's bleeding, I'm sorry.
What should I do?
Bring something to cover the wound.
Come over here. Come on.
Now, when I move my hand,
put it on the wound and press down hard, okay?
I don't want to hurt you.
Now.
Now, when the bleeding stops, I'll need something strong for the pain.
That I have.
What do you want to do tomorrow?
I'm planting some seeds I bought the other day.
Campanula.
They're flowers.
Are you going to come and water them every weekend?
They don't need much care in this climate.
Flowers aren't my thing.
They're strong. They can handle hostile terrain.
You'd better go back.
Where?
To your life.
You've been perfect, really, thank you.
But that's it, it's over.
So this was the plan.
There is no plan.
Then why did you want me to come here?
I was wrong, I'm sorry.
I've been here for a week and I still don't know why I'm here.
I don't know what to tell you.
This got out of hand. I'm sorry, I don't know.
Tell me what you want already.
Or is this what you wanted. To see me like this.
Still knowing that you'll never forgive me for what I did to you.
No, I forgave you a long time ago, really. There's no grudge.
Then...
what do you want me to do?
Tell me already.
I want you to leave.
Please.
At the hospital they told me everything.
Your disease, the evolution.
The pain and how long you have left.
You see? You shouldn't have planted those flowers.
What do you want me to do?
We can have dinner.
Do you feel like it?
A barbecue?
Come on.
But I want you to be gone tomorrow when I wake up, okay?
What do you want?
Come on, look.
We can light the fire here.
It's windy but it'll take.
This is just how it is.
There's nothing else, this is how things are.
I only want to help you.
Are you sure you want to know what I want from you?
Of course.
Really?
Yes.
If you decide not to do it, I want you to leave.
Yes.
How are you?
Fine.
Why are you dressed so lightly?
I didn't know it was the coldest day of the year here.
The climate and people in Paris will never know how to bundle up.
Sounds familiar.
It's yours.
That's why we left and my parents hated you.
They hated me before that, Mathieu.
You were a rebel.
How do you say it where you're from?
"Stir crazy."
That's right.
"Stir crazy."
And now?
Now... I've stopped.
Someone like you doesn't just show up like this after 35 years.
I went looking for you in the cemetery and you weren't there.
I see.
I was lied to.
Apparently that's a sign of creativity.
Lying?
No.
Adding intrigue to life.
That always worked with you.
What?
Intrigue.
The need to imagine that what you want is somewhere else.
Where?
Anywhere else but here.
Sir!
Do you hold a grudge against me?
No.
Why?
It's transformed.
Into what?
An immobile memory.
You always make up expressions I don't understand.
Some memories move and help us live.
Others...
get blocked.
Very powerful.
If we can't set it back in motion, it drags us down.
She asked me to...
I know.
She wouldn't let me do it.
You offered to?
Yes.
But she only invited me to dinner.
She said good night like I was going to see her the next day.
You didn't say goodbye?
It's better.
What's better?
Not to.
You know something about that.
I didn't do it out of cowardice.
You didn't because you'd made up your mind.
And nothing could stop you.
Like her.
No.
I left because...
I wanted more.
And did you get more?
Yes.
But it's never enough, Mathieu.
Never.
It's exhausting.
You see?
We all deserve to rest.
Thank you. Keep the change.
Chiara?
What are you doing lying here?
Let's go home.
I'm tired.
I'll help you go to bed. Come on.
No.
I'm tired.
One last effort.
Can you?
Come on.
Mom...
What, my child?
I understand.
What?
Everything.
