His brother compelled him into propriety, and carried him along within the lines of the oligarchy.
“Just so, sir. Now, Miss Thoroughbung is a very nice lady.”
I do not blush to be converted with the whole world in my old age.
Nay, who has not been made an adulterer?
Gibson.
Here, my brother, you may surely see how men such as they, men of holiness, men of courage in the midst of tribulation—from which, however, they were delivered, the flame itself fearing to consume them, were not silent about their sins, but confessed them, knowing that because of these sins they were deservedly and justly brought low.
And they felt it to be the harder because Dorothy Stanbury was, as they thought, so poor a creature.
So it is also with humility.
He had but an uneasy ride of it that morning, and little good did he do at St. Ewold’s.
Now round dinner-tables are generally of oak, or else of such new construction as not to have acquired the peculiar hue which was so pleasing to him.
If it is on account of the recollection of the deed, either he will not perceive it if souls shall perish, or, if he shall perceive it, he will gain nothing from it.
And then, at last, that future day was absolutely brought on the tapis as though now to be named.
Chapter 24. Out of the Many True Things, It is Not Asserted Confidently that Moses Understood This or That.
The first in date is Bunyan’s Pilgrim’s Progress, — as to which, were I to claim it simply as a work of English Prose Fiction, I think you would blame me.
But the matter is brass.
But this would be possible,—ah, so deliciously possible,—if only her father and mother would assist!
Incline unto me Your ear.
She did not believe it.
In the first place there had been a word or two between the lovers about that going up of St. Peter’s, and Augusta had refused to join them.
What means this haste?
“Is it what I said to you last night?” asked the Countess.
She was no longer in a dream, but words and things bore to her again their proper meaning.
And their one study is, to pluck up all chastity from the foundations, to disgrace our nature, to satiate the desire of the wicked demon.
For in deeds the sin is often of infirmity or of negligence, but in purposes it is always of malicious intent.
But perhaps you imagine, fool, that we shall contradict these texts of yours, and so deny that there is one true God.
And they will be pleased not more with other things than with what is like themselves.
But let them take care that they did not go beyond that.
He was kind enough to call me a blackguard (!!!)
[Matthew 23:3] Where is that, Whether in truth or on occasion Christ be preached?
To those who have regarded Cicero as a philosopher—as one who has devoted his life to the pursuits of philosophy—does it not appear odd that he should have deferred his writing on the subject and postponed 279his convictions till now?
And when you ate and drank, did you not eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves [Zechariah 7:5 seq]?
For had it been His pleasure to require an account of the things we had transgressed in, we should all have perished; for all died.
A young pig roasted (for your ideas on this subject force us to discuss good and evil with you as if you were cooks and confectioners, instead of men of reading or literary taste) is bright in color, and agreeable in smell, and pleasant in taste.
Now the estate was his, and what was he to do with it?
He certainly did bring him, and as certainly intended to make him his heir.
For even should the King forgive him, and release him from the charges against him, still he will live in shame; for surely not even will others admire him: since in such forgiveness, we admire not those who receive the gifts, but those who bestow them.
But as he was on the landing by the drawing-room door, descending quickly, conscious that, in obedience to his orders, the chops had been already served, he was met by a servant who, with disturbed face and quick voice, told him that there was a lady waiting for him in the hall.
The Lords having carried their resolution showed no purpose of going any further.
When Thady reached the end of the avenue, where the fracas had taken place between himself and Keegan, he met Pat Brady.
But that, having become man for our sakes, He endured to suffer and to be dishonoured, and that He shall come again with glory, hear the prophecies which relate to this; they are these: Because they delivered His soul unto death, and He was numbered with the transgressors, He has borne the sin of many, and shall make intercession for the transgressors.
“That is just what Mr. Eames has gone abroad to learn.”
Too Many, and Too Few
I found Father Giles sitting up in his bed, while Mrs. Kirwan was rubbing his shoulder diligently with an embrocation of arnica. The girl was standing by with a basin half full of the same, and I could see that the priest’s neck and shoulders were as red as a raw beefsteak. He winced grievously under the rubbing, but he bore it like a man.
And if, again, you answer sophistically, 'O, my friend, by those who come not to perfection I understand being perfected in Christ-taught righteousness; 'he will say, 'But, indeed, my worthy friend, very many who are begotten of unrighteous seed are not only numbered among those who are gathered into the flock of the brethren, but are often called even to preside over them.
With the same zeal.
They do not, however, devote attention to prophets, but neither do they to any other sages, except to the law of Moses only, in regard of which, however, they frame no interpretations.
V. The blessedness of the meek
I was travelling through the country by a mail cart, and had to stay at a miserable wayside but which called itself an hotel, with eight or ten other passengers.
“Why is she to be called Miss Dormer?”
And one may say to them, O reckless men, is He a work, who is 'the First-born of every creature, who is born from the womb before the morning star ,' who said, as Wisdom, 'Before all the hills He begets me [Proverbs 8:25]?'
He then proceeded to Antioch in Syria, where the emperor was then residing.
That was the mood in which Mrs Mackenzie found her late in the afternoon on the day of Sir John Ball’s visit.
He sets the example of drinking this cup, then hands it to His followers, manifesting thus, both in word and deed, the grace of patience.
Chapter 34.— The Church is Not to Be Blamed for the Conduct of Bad Christians, Worshippers of Tombs and Pictures
[Acts 12:6] Yet he rejoiced and was not diverted from his right mind and he fell into deep sleep which could not have been, had he been in any great anxiety.
And then he had walked over his land, having a farming man at his heels, thinking that he could turn his mind to the actual and practical working of his land.
In whom are all the treasures.
He told me that Bathanarius, once count of Africa, when the bishop was dining with him, produced a magnet, and held it under a silver plate on which he placed a bit of iron; then as he moved his hand with the magnet underneath the plate, the iron upon the plate moved about accordingly.
You walk in pride and madness,
It was not surprising that Nina should be so hard to him — to him who had as yet offered her nothing in her poverty but a few cold compliments.
“It is a little odd about Ayala,” said Gertrude, resuming her confidential tone. “It is so hard to make papa understand about these kind of things. I declare I believe he thinks that I never ought to speak to another man because of that scoundrel Frank Houston.”
Perhaps a rougher manner, with some little touch of marital self-assertion, might be a safer commencement of married life,—safer to the wife as coming from her husband.
For the quality of the drink is correspondent to that of the eating.
At one time he had fully resolved to do that by which he would have proved to himself his conviction that honesty is the best policy, and then he sat doubting again—declaring to himself that honesty itself did not require him to do this meditated deed.
“To torment you, George!”
[1 John 1:8] No doubt, though this book is called the Apocalypse, there are in it many obscure passages to exercise the mind of the reader, and there are few passages so plain as to assist us in the interpretation of the others, even though we take pains; and this difficulty is increased by the repetition of the same things, in forms so different, that the things referred to seem to be different, although in fact they are only differently stated.
And from this it follows that, since the nature of this reason which is in man has within itself the power of distinguishing between good and evil, and while distinguishing possesses the faculty of selecting what it has approved, it may justly be deemed worthy of praise in choosing what is good, and deserving of censure in following that which is base or wicked.
There had been Beltons of Belton living there for many centuries, and now he was the Belton of the day, standing on his own ground,—the descendant and representative of the Beltons of old,—Belton of Belton without a flaw in his pedigree!
All men, then, must admit that it is the course of nature for water to be supported on the earth, and not the earth on the waters.
In front and around the ground is broken, but immediately before the door there is a way up to a lateral valley, down which comes a nameless stream which, just below the house, makes its way into the Ivil, the little river which runs from the mountain to the inn, taking its course through that meadow which lies between the hill and the house.
And hence it does not follow that an object of faith is not an object of sight.
But they not only knew Him not: they also insulted in another way, by their idol making.
“Mamma, has George done better than Arthur?” said one of the younger girls. “George always does do better, I think; doesn’t he?”
Who could doubt the injustice who knew that he had been summoned thither from London to take his place at Llanfeare as heir to the property?
Not mind, sir, being dragged before the criminal tribunals of your country, and being punished as a felon,—or rather as a misdemeanour,—for an outrage committed on a public platform!
As the meet on the next morning was in the park the party at Rufford Hall was able to enjoy the luxury of an easy morning together with the pleasures of the field.
She could not but love him better, in that he had loved her so well; but yet she could not love him with the love which he desired.
Augustine shows that not only the increase, but the very beginning also of faith is in God's gift.
But lest any one should think that the God of glory appeared then to the eyes of any mortal in that which He is in Himself, he goes on to say that an angel appeared to Moses.
This He said also unto Paul: My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. [2 Corinthians 12:9] It is I, now mark it, who have caused you so to be. For in saying, I send you forth as sheep, He intimates this. Do not therefore despond, for I know, I know certainly, that in this way more than any other ye will be invincible to all.
‘Indeed, ma’am, he is then; the worst of misbehaviour; for he’s gone and got hisself married.’ And poor Susan gave vent to a flood of tears.
“I must speak to you as we go away,” said Phineas, whispering a word into Fitzgibbon’s ear.
Who has considered them more attentively?
These things are not my conjectures, but are affirmed constantly by the apostle, with an emphasis sufficient to rouse the careless and to silence the gainsayers.
In this sense Elias has come: but if you would seek the Tishbite, he is coming. Wherefore also He said, Elias truly comes, and shall restore all things. All what things? Such as the Prophet Malachi spoke of; for I will send you, says He, Elias the Tishbite, who shall restore the heart of father to son, lest I come and utterly smite the earth.
“I dare say not; I dare say not,” said the Duke. “Gatherum is always thought to be dull.”
Thenceforward let matters see to themselves.
He was feared, and, as he thought, detested by his wife.
But lest the objectors should think that the Apostle was in error, let them learn whom he followed as his authority for his belief.
“So you shall, papa, and I’ll bring her here on purpose. As soon as ever the thing is settled, we mean to ask her to Plumstead.”
[John 1:3] He so speaks here, as if he would make us say, that there is a something in man's substance which was created by the devil.
There is not one of us can hold a candle to him.
But surely the faithful prayed then, surely the Apostles prayed then, for this Lord's Prayer was given rather to the faithful.
“I have not thought much about that.”
I know all this as well as you; none shall gainsay it, and if you like I will form an image of the things now taking place so as to present the tragedy yet more distinctly to you.
And last of all, as unto one born out of due time, he appeared to me also.
The park itself is spacious, but is flat and uninteresting, being surrounded by a thin belt of new-looking fir-trees, and containing but very little old or handsome timber.
Why had she not taken advice when she was younger?
For to a Paul it is becoming to say I think also that I have the Spirit of God, [1 Corinthians 7:40] and again, that good thing which was committed to you keep by the Holy Ghost which dwells in us.
For them there was never more than ninepence in a shilling, if so much.
The shop would then be again opened for a week, and, after that, there would be an end of Brown, Jones, and Robinson.
The days of the no-rent manifestation had not yet come, as the obnoxious Members of Parliament were not yet in prison; but no-rent was already firmly fixed in the minds of many men, about to lead in the process of time to “Arrears Bills,” and other abominations of injustice.
And if we justly place so high a value upon chastity, what offense have we taken at truth, that, while no prospect of advantage to another will lead us to violate the former by adultery, we should be ready to violate the latter by lying?
This was done early in 1858.
Therefore the desire of wisdom brings to a kingdom."
And (the topic of this fifth nature) constitutes a distinct investigation in philosophy.
He could not violently dislike a man and yet not wish to do him any harm.
The first belongs to the soul alone, the second to the soul making use of the body, the third to the body animated by mind, and the last is the effect.
I know that many of the philosophers, who defend providence, are accustomed to be disturbed by this argument, and are almost driven against their will to admit that God takes no interest in anything, which Epicurus especially aims at; but having examined the matter, we easily do away with this formidable argument.
So she told herself, with much misery of spirit, as she was preparing the breakfast-table for William Belton.
When she was twenty, she had studied the subject more deeply, and had told herself that though her spirit was prone to rebel against her aunt, that though she would fain have been allowed to do as did other girls of twenty, yet she knew her aunt to be a good woman, and knew that it behoved her to obey.
This transformation certainly is to be looked for, according to the order which we have taught above; and in it, undoubtedly, it becomes us to hope for something worthy of divine grace; and this we believe will take place in the order in which the apostle describes the sowing in the ground of a bare grain of grain, or of any other fruit, to which God gives a body as it pleases Him, as soon as the grain of grain is dead.
But the relationship worthy of honors, is that which does distinguish us from the wicked.
It may perhaps help to sell an edition, but can never make an author successful.
For the heretics, who are most profane in all things, have sharpened their tongue against the Holy Ghost also, and have dared to utter impious things; as Irenæus the interpreter has written in his injunctions against heresies.
The annexation, distasteful as the idea is at home of a measure so highhanded and so apparently unwarrantable, has been well received.
Whether you speak of the roof, or of the walls, or of any other part whatsoever, He it is supports the whole.
But the journey now before me, from the capital of Natal to the capital of the Transvaal and thence round by Kimberley, the capital of the Diamond.
So then the work of salvation consists not in doing evil, but in suffering evil.
For when they have assumed anything false in the commencement of their investigations, led by the resemblance of the truth, they necessarily fall into those things which are its consequences.
And now that Caroline had lost her lover, she confessed to herself that she did love him.
That very frantic energy which induced her to appeal to her mother was, in itself, proof of her imprudence.
He couldn’t do it for the sake of his family.
“And who brought that crowd to the house?” demanded Robinson. “Who has filled the shop below with such a throng of anxious purchasers?”
And if they marvel and say as in Isaiah's drama Who is this that comes from Edom and from the things of earth?
Whether bond or free, whether Greeks or barbarians or Scythians, unlearned or learned, female or male, children or old men, in honor or dishonor, rich or poor, rulers or private persons, all, He says, are deemed worthy the same privilege; for faith and the grace of the Spirit, removing the inequality caused by worldly things, has moulded all to one fashion, and stamped them with one impress, the King's.
And since no passage of the inspired Scripture uses the terms 'out of the non-existent,' or that 'there was a time when He was not,' nor indeed any of the other phrases of the same class, it did not appear reasonable to assert or to teach such things.
But the race of darkness, say the Manichæans, excepting the part which was evil to the light which it bordered on, was also evil to itself.
Again, when these did not obey, you have come.
He had fallen into these feelings and could not now avoid them, or be quit of them;—but he could have been silent respecting them.
[Isaiah 6:11] For full of affectionateness is the whole race of the saints.
“Where am I to stay, Tom?”
I have said nothing difficult, nothing burdensome.
He knows all the while that the hypostasis of God the Word was perfect before the ages; and that the form of the servant which was assumed by It was perfect; and this is the reason why he said hypostases and not hypostasis.
For while they spoke, because they could not help it, of the God whom we worship, they either taught their fellow-countrymen to worship idols and demons, or allowed them to do so without daring to protest against it.
For lest by these words he should seem to accuse them, see how he seals up all.
His toilet, I have said, was not elaborate; but in this I have perhaps wronged him.
Lady Glencora, leaving Alice’s side, at once stepped up and deposited a piece of gold on one of the marked compartments.
The Misses Macmanus were very worthy women, and earned their bread in an upright, painstaking manner.
For his preaching is set forth to all alike, it knows no distinction of rank, no preëminence of nation, no other thing of the sort; for faith alone does it require, and not reasonings.
With widows, indeed, it has become a common practice to trifle, and to rail at one another, to flatter or to be impudent, to appear everywhere in public, and to perambulate the market-place.
“I suppose you are.”
“Lady Grant is here at this moment,” Miss Altifiorla said in one of her letters.
But I say it must.
On this account virgins are less honored than women of the world.
On the fourteenth of May, the day previous to the opening of the house, Robinson was seated upstairs alone, still at work on some of his large posters.
Steinmark. A free pardon, burgomaster; say a free pardon. Madame Brudo.
“I don’t like Captain Aylmer at all,” said Will, after a pause.
A Howard is nowhere lovelier than in America, or a sweaty nightcap less relished.
The Platonists do not deny their existence, but prefer to call them good demons.
Again, Aristophanes having written:—
A Double Pledge
For so will you reap the wages of his love also.
“I will do my best,” he said; “but as for telling them about this woman and that, I cannot do it.
And there was a fleeting brightness of colour which went about her cheeks and forehead, and ran around her mouth, which gave to her when she was speaking a brilliance which was hardly to be expected from the ordinary lines of her countenance.
“You cannot be surprised that I should be angry and indignant at the treatment I have received.”
George would not become soft and mild-spoken even by a deathbed side, and it would be likely enough that the Squire would curse his heir with his dying breath.
For not to go far away, this we are; and it is manifest he, too, was this, and that his soul joined to his body lived after the manner of mortals.
You know how we all strove to cross back into La Vendée, first at Angers and afterwards at Ancenis; and how M. Henri got divided from the army at Ancenis.
For that man is more abundantly possessed by the devil who is not only alienated from God, but also gratuitously hates those who serve God.
“No; I am sure he did not. Had he done so it could not have been found among Mr. Usbech’s papers; for, as far as I remember, the poor man never attended to any business after that day.”
Or, if any think this also to be sin, thinking that it comes not to pass save from some lust of this kind, which without doubt is false; what?
St. Diddulph’s, October 8, 186—.
Wonderful was the devotion of the faithful!
By no means, but the not having these riches, this procured him Heaven.
There are earths there deep, capacious, full of nurseries; but these, on the present occasion, were debarred from the poor stranger by the wicked ingenuity of man.
Texts explained; Sixthly, Proverbs 8:22.
She was seated in an easy bedroom chair, clothed from head to foot in a pale pink dressing-gown, from which the colour was nearly washed out; and her hair as I have said was “half done.” But in her trouble to collect her thoughts she became quite unaware of all accessories.
So that I am reduced to the alternative of repeating exhortations which seem superfluous or of omitting them to the serious injury of this treatise.
Short, broad and snuffy—Well, now I call it a very good nose. The nose is certainly much altered, if it be the same nose at all.
Such a thing should never take place with his consent, and Harry Handcock had ceased to speak tenderly.
And for this very reason there is also a word of the Saviour to prepare us for that day, in these words: Be ready and watch, for He comes at an hour you know not.
You have deceived only those who were not on the spot, and your letters flatter the ears of strangers only.
In the first place, because free will itself, on which I have said that the possibility of the soul's sinning depends, is here sufficiently expressed, when sins are mentioned, and it is said that our reconciliation with God takes place through Jesus Christ.
What is more wonderful among God's wonderful works, than the raising the dead?
It may be imagined how very unpleasant all this must have been to Miss Neefit herself.
Observe this also in that testimony which was given by the prophet on this subject in the clearest way: Behold, the days come, says the Lord, that I will consummate a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah; not according to the covenant which I made with their fathers, in the day that I took them by the hand, to bring them out of the land of Egypt.
It was not surprising that he should be anxious to keep in his own hand some small remnant of his own property.
“I wish it would come from ten thousand buckets,” said the master.
He could shoot well without wanting to shoot best.
To have pardoned the man because he was his father, and then to have treated him with insolent disdain, as some dying old man, almost entirely beneath his notice, was what he felt the nature of the circumstances demanded.
Miss Mackenzie found that the carriage arrangement had been fixed upon a new and more settled basis since her last visit.
Different magistrates, or the officers of different magistrates, frequently contended for the right of levying the tax from the same persons.
A sort of message had reached her, through Frank Greystock, to the effect that Lord Fawn thought it as well that they should not meet till the matter was settled.
“Won’t you make me known to your sister-in-law!” said he taking off his hat, and bowing to Lucy. “I have never yet had the pleasure of meeting her, though we have been neighbours for a month and more.” Fanny made her excuses and introduced them, and then they went on till they came to Framley Gate, Lord Lufton talking to them both, and Fanny answering for the two, and there they stopped for a moment.
I hardly know which was the worst, the lecture, the kiss, or the present.
For a time, no doubt, British “tenderness” will prevail.
What is, he shows contempt?
While God may supply a man with all that is according to his mind, and deprive him of no object which may in any manner appeal to his desires, whether it be wealth, or honour, or any other of those things for which men distract themselves; yet the man, while thus prospered in all things, as though the only ill inflicted on him from heaven were just the inability to enjoy them, may but husband them for his fellow, and fall without profit either to himself or to his neighbours.
They intended to be there by the middle of August, and would hurry there sooner, if there was any intermediate difficulty about finding a home for Nora.
It rejoiced her heart to think that her son was anxious to meet Griselda—that he should perpetrate this little ruse in order to gain his wish.
Lucius had replied haughtily, that he and his mother would know how to protect themselves, and the apothecary had retreated, resolving to spread the report everywhere.
“Let it be odd. I most certainly shall not be there.” But he remembered the occasion, and showed that he did so by sending to the bride the handsomest of all the gems which graced her exhibition of presents, short of the tremendous set of diamonds which had come from the Duke of Merioneth.
17. May the unseen guardians of all sects be favourable to your Graces, and may they especially, who in old time assisted your ancestors, defend you and be worshipped by us. We ask for that state of religious matters which preserved the empire for the divine parent of your Highnesses, and furnished that blessed prince with lawful heirs. That venerable father beholds from the starry height the tears of the priests, and considers himself censured by the violation of that custom which he willingly observed.
“I’ve got to move slower, Mr. Heathcote, as I grow older. That’s about it. And the beast I’m on is not much good.” Now Mr. Bates was always complaining of his horse, and yet was allowed to choose any on the run for his own use.
When he is destroyed we shall be able to do homage to one another in letters of peace while we live in peace.
She rejected the two first offered to her, and herself dictated the epithets with which the third was loaded.
Further, to enlarge their border is to extend abroad the fame of their reputation.
There were the four horses at the Moonbeam;—and he could ride them to hounds as well as any man.
When she was little more than a child they married her to that reprobate Morton.
Go, therefore, to the Virgin Mary.
Then, His face being revealed, we shall be allowed to look upon the glory of God, which now our souls, involved in the compacted dregs of this body, and shadowed by some stains and filth of this flesh, cannot clearly see.
She had intended to say nothing of her love, but he knew that it had all been told.
[Romans 5:12] Now from these words it cannot certainly be said, that Adam's sin has injured even those who commit no sin, for the Scripture says, In which all have sinned.
But to a Being absolutely in need of nothing, no one of His works can contribute anything to His own use.
“So far do I differ from you,” he says, “that not only do I not think that any relief in age is to be found in the crowd of them who may come to me for advice, but I look to its solitude as a harbor.
“Oh, Mr Crumb! Everybody is going on about Mr Crumb. I don’t like Mr Crumb, and I never will like him.”
Girls whose mouths will water unduly for the fleshpots of Egypt must in after life undergo such penalties as these.
I will not say that she had forgotten herself, and her own love in thinking about John Bold, and while conversing with Mary: she certainly had not done so.
“I suppose so,” said he. “But you do do it sometimes.”
Hilary declares ( 17) that his purpose is to refute these heresies and to demonstrate the true faith by the evidence of Scripture.
In this work he showed both from his own argument and from the testimony of Sacred Scriptures that the Lord Jesus from his conception by the Holy Spirit and his birth of the Virgin through which true God in true man himself also man made God was born, always beheld with his eyes of flesh both the Father and the Holy Spirit through the special and complete union of God and man.
“Mr. Bunfit, I’m not saying as I’ve got the truth beyond this,—that Benjamin and his two men were clean done at Carlisle, that Lord George and his lady brought the jewels up to town between ‘em, and that the party who didn’t get ‘em at Carlisle tried their hand again and did get ‘em in Hertford Street.” In all of which the ingenious Gager would have been right, if he could have kept his mind clear from the alluring conviction that a lord had been the chief of the thieves.
Or the transgressor at Corinth?
“No, but—he’d draw up a deed, wouldn’t he, Blake? It’s a sort of a marriage settlement.”
But now since he whom Thou fillest is the one Thou liftest up, I am a burden to myself, as not being full of You.
For the wife of Herod earned and obtained the boon by means of her daughter, that the head of John should be brought to table in a charger.
And such is ever God's way of dealing; as Paul also implies when he says, Who comforts us in all affliction.
“Why did you not take them?”
“Women are accustomed to that, and do not feel it as you would. However, I will walk with you if you’ll take me.”
[John 17:18] And as you sent me into the world, I [37] [Arabic, p. 180] also send them into the world.
“If you will look at the contests throughout the world,” said Sir Ferdinando, “you will generally find that the highest respect is paid to the greatest battalions.”
[1 Corinthians 8:11] Let us not, in opposition to these precepts, and to a wholesome fear, pretend to argue, saying, Well, let evil communications corrupt good manners, and let the weak brother perish.
When prepare what our scholars buy from us?
Now tell me why is wealth an object of ambition?
Therefore, O fool, be instructed by this, that each of the seeds is clothed in its own body.
[Matthew 10:34] And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and also of the Jews with their rulers, to use them despitefully, and to stone them, they were aware of it, and fled unto Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and unto the region that lies round about: and there they preached the Gospel.
These are the bones of contention, which you are perpetually gnawing!
I think, however, there is nothing useful in the other branches of learning that are found among the heathen, except information about objects, either past or present, that relate to the bodily senses, in which are included also the experiments and conclusions of the useful mechanical arts, except also the sciences of reasoning and of number.
Kate was no coward.
Her friend was untrue to her and cruel in those allusions to tinkling cymbals.
I had written some time ago a letter to you on this subject, which was not delivered to you, because the bearer to whom it was entrusted did not finish his journey to you.
“I do not know. I cannot remember. But he behaved very well.”
I have received your letter, my beloved, and when I read it, it greatly gladdened me that you have turned your thoughts to these investigations.
[1 Corinthians 7:36] And he adds another passage from the Epistle to Philemon, where, speaking of Onesimus, [St. Paul says]: 'Whom I would have retained with me, that in your stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel.
“Mr Stumfold is very good, and so is she.”
“They’ll console themselves with skating,” said Mrs. Dale.
“If it be so, my feelings will be the same as they have always been since I first knew her. That is all that I have got to say.”
He was convinced by this divine dream, and fled the danger.
Mr. Greenwood endeavoured to be sprightly, and the parson, and the parson’s wife, and the parson’s daughter were uncomfortable.
As well might they say, Flesh is wounded by some body, for in itself it is invulnerable.
But if any one, finding this inadmissible, answers, But how then, if no one rose before Christ went down into Hades, are several recorded as having risen before Him?
“Bah, Auguste,” said his mistress; “the gentleman does not care to hear of your La Petite Vendée; it is of M. Henri—that is, of the young Marquis de Larochejaquelin, and of Madame and of Mademoiselle Agatha, and of M. de Lescure, and of Charette, and the Prince de Talmont, that Monsieur will want to hear!”
He even went so far as to maintain that this would be gratifying to the most merciful and clement Valens Augustus.
If I would remain there with my gun cocked and ready, a buck would surely come by almost at once so that I might shoot him.
At that time it was not raining, but the clouds looked as like rain as the Secretary of Legation could have desired.
On this principle, a man may say, much more must we rebaptize after a drunkard, because John was sober, and yet baptism was repeated after him.
Chapter 13. The Beggar Woman.
And some, in worshipping God, make a representation of heaven containing the stars; and so worship, although Scripture says, Let Us make man in Our image and likeness.
Of so much fame, in Downing Street—expect the meed.
The specially clerical clubs,—the Oxford and Cambridge, the Old University, and the Athenaeum,—were black with them.
“He is a lout,” she said; “a stupid lout!” thus casting her scorn upon the mother as well as on the son, and, indeed, upon the whole family.
For they regard their momentary bloom, they imitate them, and wishing to flourish with them for a time, perish for evermore: this is, That they may be destroyed for ever.
He was unlike other masters of hounds in this, that he never carried a horn; but he spoke to his hounds in a loud, indistinct chirruping voice, which all County Galway believed to be understood to every hound in the park.
‘They don’t kill him, too?’
But in this matter I hold him to be blameless.
Stand not upon the order of your going but go at once,—seeing that it is necessary that you should go.
And yet he had known the times in which his dear friend had been very sharp in her memory with reference to a few pounds.
A serious illness, in addition to other causes, prevented S. Gregory from being present at his funeral (Epist.
She would talk to her own mother, and perhaps his mother might relent.
Afterwards Anaximenes, and then Diogenes of Apollonia, decide that the air, infinite and unmeasured, is God.
Glory to You, O Lord, glory to You, O Holy One, glory to You, O King, that You have given us meat to make us glad.
Because this it is that is admirable, that in those times double doors and veils made the seclusion: but now, though doing your sacrifice in public view, you may do it as in the holy of holies, and in a far more awful manner.
“It will be better that you should give them into the keeping of some one whom you can both trust, till the law has decided to whom they belong.”
[1 Timothy 3:2] So then he who is without blame the husband of one wife comes within the rule for undertaking the priestly office; he, however, who has married again has no guilt of pollution, but is disqualified for the priestly prerogative.
Will the Americans honestly wish to pay the bill; and if they do so wish, will they have the power to pay it?
Though he had purposed to destroy himself in taking that leap, and now hoped for nothing better than that they might both perish together, he yet struggled to keep his head above the waves.
In 1842 were commenced The Confessions of George Fitz-Boodle, which were continued into 1843.
But if you tell me of the pleasure of vice, tell out its end too.
“It is you that are cruel,” said Lady Rowley.
We have known each other now somewhat intimately, though indeed not very long, and I have sometimes fancied that you were almost as well pleased to be with me as I have been to be with you.
I don’t know how I am to say any more, but anybody can see with half an eye that she will simply go on losing money year after year.
So then, the same force which the expression One has, applied to the Son, it has also, applied to the Father.
The chaste wife doing the will of God, is a good reminiscence of His first creation; for God, being one, created one woman for one man.
It was, however, before all things necessary that she should put Mr Slow right as to the facts of the case. She had, no doubt, condoned whatever Mr Rubb had done. Mr Rubb undoubtedly had her sanction for keeping her money without security. Therefore, by return of post, she wrote the following short letter, which rather astonished Mr Slow when he received it—
feeling clearly that others had failed, but by no means certain that the right man was yet discovered,—England said, ‘ Try Palmerston.’ It was on the 8th of February, 1855, that the Earl of Derby withdrew, and that he took the helm.
For he wishes to show that the Son is something different from eternal life, while, unless eternal life is found in the Son, our faith will be proved to be idle, and our preaching to be vain, baptism a superfluity, the agonies of the martyrs all for nought, the toils of the Apostles useless and unprofitable for the life of men.
Those that are in the light shall be glorified, and those that are in the darkness shall groan that they may moisten their tongue.
Mr. Toogood, in spite of his asseveration that he would not budge from Barchester till he had seen Mr. Crawley through all his troubles, did run up to London as soon as the news reached him that John Eames had returned.
Everybody knows it, and Jones, who likes popularity, grieves at the unfortunate publicity.
For if a will should simply exist, but not be able to do what it wills, it would be overborne by a more powerful will.
Matters having been brought to this issue with regard to Arsenius, the contrivers of this imposture were reduced to perplexity; and Achab, who was also called John, one of the principal accusers, having slipped out of court in the tumult, effected his escape. Thus Athanasius cleared himself from this charge, without having recourse to any pleading; for he was confident that the sight only of Arsenius alive would confound his calumniators.
He had before seen himself little in his own eyes, but, when propped up by temporal power, he no longer saw himself little.
If you give thanks to God, if you dost not wail bitterly, if you utter the words of Job, The Lord gave and the Lord has taken away.
“But we must fix a day, you know,” said Peter.
They must go to the same house, and Mr Vavasor felt that it would be better that they should be on speaking terms when they reached it.
Count up then cities, and places, and nations, and peoples, not those under the Romans only, but those also under barbarians.
“Oh laws;—so he is. I always put my foot in it. Well;—he has lost a lot. And so have Silverbridge and Tifto. Perhaps you don’t know Tifto.”
I can name no colour in describing the soft changing tints of Madeline Staveley’s face, but I will make bold to say that no man ever found it insipid or inexpressive.
For thus at length He may be called the common Father of all, and the best and greatest, which His divine and heavenly nature demands.
“I suppose he can do it. The law will allow him. But the injustice would be monstrous. I did not ask him to take me by the hand when I was a boy and lead me into this special walk of life. It has been his own doing. How will he look me in the face and tell me that he is going to marry a wife? I shall look him in the face and tell him of my wife.”
Let me state the greater results.
Not many perhaps wore pink coats, and none pink tops.
For be well assured that this very fact marks in you the nature of vipers, that you have not in your mouth the foundation of truth, but the poison of slanderous abuse, as it is written, "The poison of asps is under their lips."
But Valentinus is not disposed to affirm what is thus generated to be primal Deity, but speaks in detractive terms both of Him and the things made by Him.
And in seeking this we love God, we love also our neighbour: and the love within us has but one Object, since we desire the bond-servant to serve and the Lord to have rule.
Some people called him the dormouse.
He shows you together with these this selfsame publican also, that was grievously oppressed by the fever of covetousness, quickly set free from it.
Let us also pass over this fire of lust, fearing which Paul— but fearing for us, inasmuch as by buffeting his body he had come no longer to fear for himself— says to us: Flee fornication.
Again God gave him the commands about the Amalekites, but he transgressed these too.
In truth, the champagne, and the imprisonment, and Ayala together, had altogether altered his appearance.
Therefore it is in vain that it is prescribed to me from that old book of mine, that I may not argue the case as I ought to argue it in respect of infants; and that thence I may not persuade my opponents by the light of a manifest truth, that God's grace is not given according to men's merits.
Ought I not so to have arranged matters that I myself should have been the first,—to have postponed the use of the college till such time as I might myself have been deposited?
But when you have come as far as Egypt, although it is justly proud of the numbers and virtues of its own saints, yet let it not disdain to hear how Europe will not yield to it, or to all Asia, in having only Martin.
Are but mementoes of the past.”
He firmly believed now, that that had been the object of his constant ambition; though could he retrace his thoughts as a young man, he would find that in the early days of his forensic toils, the silent, heavy, unillumined solemnity of the judge had appeared to him to be nothing in comparison with the glittering audacity of the successful advocate.
It was not by reading that the Greshams of Greshamsbury had held their heads up in the county, but by having high blood and plenty of money.
and when that?
For some must marry, and a man must be in some condition, and he must marry some one in some condition.
the part which is fixed in the ground, represents the occult nature of the holy mystery.
“No, I ain’t,” shouted Ruby.
But if the things which are to be spoken by us are manifestly impregnable on every side, we shall have confidence in entering upon the examination.
Ver. 8. Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin you that which is convenient [befitting].
But he was never convinced that Mr. Kennedy had carried out the purpose with which he rose from his chair.
I have spoken my opinion very plainly, and I hope not too confidently of the affair, and I will only add to that now an assurance of my conviction that had I been in Sir T. Shepstone’s place and done as he did, I should have been proud of the way I had served my country.
For that very thing which had immersed Adam and Eve in death, taught their son, too, to begin with murder.
“I wonder whether you would be angry with me,” continued the major, “if I told you that I wanted to speak a word to your father and mother alone?” To this Jane made no reply, but was out of the room almost before the words had reached the ears of her father and mother.
But when the fullness of time came for the revelation of the New Testament, which was hidden under the types of the Old, clear testimony was to be borne to the truth, that there is another life for which this life ought to be disregarded, and another kingdom for which the opposition of all earthly kingdoms should be patiently borne.
For from the body in what follows, and from the unity thence arising, he proceeds to the actual comparison of the members, a thing on which they were especially seeking to be instructed.
Little as she agreed with him when he spoke of the necessity of retiring into private life because a man had written to him such a letter as this, incapable as she was of understanding fully the nature of the irritation which tormented him, still she knew that he was suffering, and acknowledged to herself that she had been the cause of the agony.
What says Democritus?
“Then I’ll go out to Winslow’s about the lamb at once, ma’am.”
Lastly, what said He, his Neighbour, as it were, to him drawing near?
It was then past six, and the night was very dark.
And when I came to my sermon, I made a few remarks suitable to the occasion and the happy and joyful feeling, not desiring them to listen to me, but rather to consider the eloquence of God in this divine work.
they don’t give an animal a chance of a mouth.” In this he alluded only, I presume, to saddle-horses.
But they are defended, and pronounced good; therefore their fruit is proved to be innocent.
These men, seeking a weak point in the Christian doctrine, select for attack the eternity of the body, as if it were a contradiction to contend for the blessedness of the soul, and to wish it to be always resident in the body, bound, as it were, in a lamentable chain; and this although Plato, their own founder and master, affirms that it was granted by the Supreme as a boon to the gods He had made, that they should not die, that is, should not be separated from the bodies with which He had connected them.
There are rejected lovers who, merely because they are lovers, become subject to the scorn and even to the disgust of the girls they love.
But if he both believes and loves, then through good works, and through diligent attention to the precepts of morality, he comes to hope also that he shall attain the object of his love.
But I am glad they are gone,—thoroughly glad.” This was all very well, and was not without its effect on Frank Greystock.
This was not to be borne. “I’ll tell you what it is, Mr. Neefit,” said Ralph, “you’d better let me alone, or else I shall be off.”
For men enjoy all these good things which the world contains in itself.
Let such an one as this draw near, and touch the royal cups.
And to-day, are there not many who are telling us that we are losing the liberties which our forefathers got for us, and that no judgment can be passed on us “save one of inexorable and remorseless condemnation?” We are a great nation, and the present threatenings are probably vain.
Eusebius, Theognius, Patrophilus, the other Eusebius, Ursacius, and Valens.
The romance of the thing, and not the pity of it, was the general subject of discourse, so that she could not fail to perceive that she was generally regarded as the future wife of Sir John Ball.
For there is nothing, he means, against your living with another husband, now the former is dead; for how should there be, since when the husband was alive it allowed this to her who had a writing of divorcement?
Come, my friend, and discourse with me.
I come now to the point which (is urged both by our own brethren and by the heretics).
When George had been living at Granpere, Urmand had only been an occasional sojourner at the inn, and had not as yet fallen into habits of friendship with the Voss family.
For how can we suppose that while a written schedule of debts is more binding than a verbal acknowledgment, yet a written oath is something other than an oath?
Gerard Maule, as he sat upstairs half undressed in his bedroom that night didn’t like it.
And this was no little advantage to the multitude. Therefore also unto them does He henceforth direct His word, having removed the wolves, and having repulsed their plots.
“As soon as you are gone. As soon as we are alone together. I will;—and then I will follow you to London. Now shall we not say, Goodbye?”
If she did not keep it all, might she still keep something—enough for decent life—and yet comfort herself with the feeling that she had expiated her sin?
In whatever you do, you have too much enthusiasm.
And thus running through the examples of all good men, by always imitating those who were better than others he made himself also worthy of imitation.
Chapter 3. Concerning His Father, a Freeman of Thagaste, the Assister of His Son's Studies, and on the Admonitions of His Mother on the Preservation of Chastity.
I will pass even beyond this power of mine which is called memory— I will pass beyond it, that I may proceed to You, O Thou sweet Light.
He was received with solemn respect by the old servants who, as he observed, abstained from calling him by any name.
Having done his work there, he had felt that he would now only be in the way.
“I doubt whether people do know,” said Hampstead. “She is twenty-one, and as far as the law goes might, I believe, walk out of the house, and marry any man she pleases tomorrow. You as her father have no authority over her whatever;”—here the indignant father jumped up from his chair; but his son went on with his speech, as though determined not to be interrupted,—”except what may come to you by her good feeling, or else from the fact that she is dependent on you for her maintenance.”
It was all true, and Clara knew that it was true. The putting right of mistakes is never pleasant; and in this case it was so unpleasant that she could not bring herself to acknowledge that it must be done. And yet, I think, that by this time she was aware of the necessity.
And unite with those before you in an earnest desire for the same glory of chastity, caring little for the things of this life.
She said to me, Whatsoever ought to be revealed, will be revealed; only let your heart be with God, and doubt not whatsoever you shall see.
Cast away the things which you have already in your hands; for so long as you grasp them you will not be able to seize the other.
She persuades her father that it would be both unjust and injudicious to banish his young friend because of his politics; she cares little to go to houses where she will not meet him, and, in fact, she is in love.
We also believe that the Son reigns with the Father, that His reign has neither beginning nor end, and that it is not bounded by time, nor can ever cease: for that which always exists never begins to be, and can never cease.
II. Christians are essentially participators in the nativity of Christ
Orion, Presbyter
It was sly, fraudulent, false, extremely courteous, and thoroughly unEnglish.
“I’ll tell you what,” said Toogood; “I’ll pay half.
But very likely he might have understood the Scripture as testifying that God gave Eve this name through Adam, as His prophet.
Poor Anty.
Again, I reckon it is the part of law and of right reason to assign to each one what is appropriate to him, and belongs to him, and falls to him.
She said to me, Lo!
All were righteous, all living in virtue, all were witnessed to by God.
Doodles proved to demonstration that the thing was not done, and that seventy pounds was too much for mere preliminaries.
Now we do not ask of you who have come to age such toil as you require of your children; for not every day, but two days only in the week do we exhort you to hearken to our words, and only for a short portion of the day, that your task may be an easy one.
You can’t have anything to do yet, and of course you’ll come.
Often has he cried out against me in the streets from late one night till early the next.
That whole halo which encircles the Church is represented (as consisting) of holiness.
The king was troubled because these women seemed to have fed not merely on human bodies, but on the bodies of their own children; and being moved by an example of such awful misery, threatened the prophet Elisha with death.
“And now that brute will reappear, and everything will be wrong again,” he said to himself.
For the moon in its increase receives the virtue which is separated from matter, and during the time of its augmentation comes forth full of it.
And would she have been so much inferior to Miss Forrester?
“In what way, Rachel?” Mrs. Ray’s voice was not quite pleasant. Now that Mrs. Prime was gone, she would have been glad to have had the dangerous subject abandoned for a while.
They became weak, and fell.
The path proposed lay right across the field into which Lily had taken Crosbie when she made her offer to let him off from his engagement. Could it be possible that she should ever walk there again with another lover? “No, John,” she said; “not to-day, I think. I am almost tired, and I had rather not go out.”
Du Boung was a man rapidly growing into provincial eminence, and jumped at the offer.
It must not be tender.
They think somewhat too much of their granduncles, who have not hitherto returned the compliment by thinking much of them.
For wells are also gathering places for water, made by the hand of man to receive the moisture diffused in the hollow of the earth.
And it is surely a happy circumstance that the punishment of such persons as I have described should have been publicly manifested in our own times.
Bishops would be bishops indeed, when they were no longer the creatures of a Minister’s breath.
It was done in the most primitive manner.
All but a small part of it is taken up with discussions tending to the praise of particular Bishops, and adds nothing to our knowledge of facts.
The prophets, indeed, foretold what Christ should suffer, and set forth the reason why He should suffer.
In the exquisite misery of her troubles, she had told him the truth about herself and her son, and he had responded, not by compliments, but by real aid and true counsel.
The signora was carried head foremost, her head being the care of her brother and an Italian manservant who was accustomed to the work; her feet were in the care of the lady’s maid and the lady’s Italian page; and Charlotte Stanhope followed to see that all was done with due grace and decorum.
Nina had brought out her necklace and had asked Souchey to take it to the shop and do the best with it he could; but Souchey had declined the commission, alleging that he would be accused of having stolen it; and Nina had then prepared to go herself, but her father had called her, and he had come out into the sitting-room and had remained there during the afternoon, so that both the sale of the trinket and the search in the desk had been postponed.
“How was it different, Nora?”
The warning of the gospel has been all but fulfilled in me, for I did not sufficiently count the cost of the tower I was about to build; [Luke 14:28] accordingly I have been constrained to send my brother Paulinian to Italy to sell some ruinous villas which have escaped the hands of the barbarians, and also the property inherited from our common parents.
There are some who are calling the gods to assist them in court.
And then Luke reports how the Lord rose up from the synagogue and went into the house of Simon, and rebuked the fever in his mother-in-law, and cured her of her disease; and after this cure, when the sun was setting, he says, all, as many as had persons sick with various diseases, brought them to Him, and He laid his hands on each one of them and cured them.
the qualities which carry him through it and give the halo to his head may after all be very ungodlike.
Beholdest thou the Spirit living, separating, calling, and with authority sending forth?
To these turn this disease of yours with some advantage.
Ver. 4. Who for my life have laid down their own necks.
Lo, obedience must be paid to your precepts, that such a one may be made a priest as authority approves; and such a one as is sought is not found.
Bessy had been despised at first all around Launay.
For the irrational animals have their food provided for them, because there is not in them even an impulse towards the invention of the arts.
After what you have heard, are the Melmottes people with whom you would wish to be connected?
Although the name of Christian was not at that time in the world, yet truth was always suffering condemnation.
Orth.— If then the grace of the Incarnation is real, and what we call Incarnation is the divine Word's being made man, then the name man is real; for after taking man's nature He is called man.
“There’s nothing I do hate so much as them lowbred Old Bailey attorneys,” said Mr. Dan Stringer to the waiter, in a voice intended to reach Mr. Toogood’s ears.
Nor must we ask why the Word of God is not such as our word, considering God is not such as we, as has been before said; nor again is it right to seek how the word is from God, or how He is God's radiance, or how God begets, and what is the manner of His begetting.
Diamonds were found, and the Diamond Fields had to be reached through the Free State.
55. And again further on He says: He that despises Me, and receives not My words, has one that judges him. [John 12:48] Does he seem to you to have received Christ's words who has not corrected himself? Undoubtedly not. He, then, who corrects himself receives His word, for this is His word, that every one should turn back from sin. So, then, of necessity you must either reject this saying of His, or if you cannot deny it you must accept it.
“Of course; I always misunderstand everything. I know that. I misunderstood it when I told you how you would distress yourself if you took those nasty hounds.”
[Matthew 10:9-10] What then?
And Thestius:—
On these passages it is probable that our opponents will take their stand.
If he did not foresee the evil, he must have been in the darkness of ignorance.
[Daniel 12:3] You can see, therefore, how great is the difference between righteous ignorance and instructed righteousness.
“Is it likely that I should jest on such a subject;—or that if I had a mind to do so I should tell you? You must keep my secret. You must not tell your uncle. It must come to him from myself. At the present moment he does not in the least know me,—but he will.”
As they were fatigued with their journey, he led them to the episcopal dwelling, made them sit down at table, and gave them to eat of such things as he had.
[Exodus 20:5-6] For He who placed some on the right hand, and others on the left, conceived as Father, being good, is called that which alone He is— good; [Matthew 19:17] but as He is the Son in the Father, being his Word, from their mutual relation, the name of power being measured by equality of love, He is called righteous.
For the change which is to come in at the resurrection is, in truth, not only not to have death incidental to it, which has happened through sin, but neither is it to have mortality, [or the very possibility of death,] which the natural body had before it sinned.
“Wasn’t she the daughter of an ironmonger?” asked the elder Miss Godolphin.
Understand that the Monad was; but the Dyad was not, before it was in existence.
Then adding to these a few more words on his answer and his hymns, he declares that he is not disobedient, that the Emperor is a son of the Church, and that Auxentius is worse than a Jew.
[John 14:12-13] For if the Son cannot give what the Father can give, the Truth has lied, and cannot do what the Father has been asked for in His name.
And now there was this aggravation to her misery,—this horrid suitor, who disgraced her by making those around her suppose it to be possible that she should ever accept him; who had probably heard of her quarrel, and had been mean enough to suppose that therefore there might be a chance for himself!
But if you assert that because you cannot comprehend it, therefore He cannot have been begotten, it will be time for you to strike out many existing things which you cannot comprehend; and first of all God Himself.
No, not even so.
De Wynter. Two loving hearts grow nearer to each other by daily intercourse.
“It will be gone,” she said, “long before they reach their destination.”
Dearest Lily,
The testimony of Abbot Antony in which he teaches that each virtue ought to be sought for from him who professes it in a special degree.
For Moses speaks thus: Dan is a lion's cub, and he shall leap from Bashan.
Lord Grex had been very badly treated by his son, whom he hated worse than any one else in the world.
From the thraldom of this execrable dominion they are liberated, to whom the Lord Jesus gave power to become the sons of God.
Was that a husband’s usage?
To whom the old man: You should know, said he, that in the world to come also you will be judged in the lot of those with whom in this life you have been affected by sharing in their gain or loss, or joy or sorrow.
The prophets also, when they speak as in the person of God, [saying,] I am God, the first [of beings], and I am also the last, and besides Me there is no God, [Isaiah 44:6] concerning the Father of the universe, do also speak of our Lord Jesus Christ.
But as his wife did not accompany him on these fitful journeys, she was able to give her time very much to the Duchess.
I observe, however, that the chief advent of the Holy Spirit is declared to men, after the ascension of Christ to heaven, rather than before His coming into the world.
Judith, in no way moved by the luxurious banquet of Holophernes, carried off the triumph of which men's arms despaired, solely in right of her temperance; delivered her country from occupation and slew the leader of the expedition with her own hands.
They held their peace, it says, saying, The will of the Lord be done.
But languishing looks, and ogling, which is to wink with the eyes, is nothing else than to commit adultery with the eyes, lust skirmishing through them.
[Genesis vi.-viii] At one time the Church was in Abraham alone, and we know what he endured from the wicked.
I am told that I am to be reelected triumphantly at Tankerville without a penny of cost or the trouble of asking for a vote, simply because I didn’t knock poor Mr. Bonteen on the head.
I was afraid that you would ask me.
Chapter XXXVIII. Is There Cause or Just Impediment?
For myself, I declare in the presence of God that, after reading each of these opinions, I am unable to hold any of them as certain and absolute: the determination of the truth in this question I leave to God and to any to whom it shall please him to reveal it.
The blessed Paul had already lived on earth the life of heaven for a hundred and thirteen years, and Antony at the age of ninety was dwelling in another place of solitude (as he himself was wont to declare), when the thought occurred to the latter, that no monk more perfect than himself had settled in the desert.
But, since a shaking of various kinds is extending itself everywhere, in the midst of a common need one should grieve less for one's own, but study rather, by patiently enduring, to overcome what we cannot altogether avoid.
The martyr then was moved, but the demon not even then enjoyed freedom from fear, but straightway learned that it is possible to move the bones of a martyr, but not to escape his hands.
He puts life before the light of men, even if life and the light of men are the same thing; in thinking of those who have part in life, though that life is also the light of men, we are to come first to the fact that they are living the divine life spoken of before; then we come to their enlightenment.
It was also added that if any one should admit the condemned persons to communion, he should understand that the same sentence would be pronounced against himself.
“If you play that game, my poor girl, the police will take you.”
Thus they spoke before the king.
“Then have them all packed up,—as small as you can; never mind about wool and cases and all that. Have them close to your hand so that if you have to move you can take them with you. Do you understand?”
And then the Honourable George returned thanks.
Shall he carry a flag, too, hostile to Christ?
The archangel heard these things, and considered them within himself, as was reasonable, and said: Strange is this matter; passing comprehension is this thing that is spoken.
Strive and be thou like him.
We will leave Chapeau and his new friend still standing in the passage, for Plume could not invite him in, as none of the rooms were his own except the little garret upstairs; and we will follow Henri as he went in search of the Mad Captain, merely premising that all Plume’s efforts to find out the name of his superior officer were unavailing.
Nor would that fire, as it seemed to be, or thunderbolt, as it has been considered, have fallen upon the sheep of the patriarch, until the devil had said to God, Have You not made a hedge about all that is without and within his house and around all the rest of his property?
He is, as I have said, a peer of Parliament.
Never admit a swallow into the family, that is, Do not admit chatterers and talkative persons under the same roof with you.
And mark them, how in another respect also they are carried about into contradictory opinions. For whereas they had said of John, he has a devil, [Matthew 11:18] they stopped not at this, but said the very same again concerning Him, taking as He did the opposite course; thus were they forever carried about into conflicting opinions.
“No, T.; you would not give up anything; quite the other way. You would have every comfort round you that any man can possibly want. You can’t go on at it always, toiling and moiling as you’re doing now. It’s quite dreadful for a man never to have a moment to himself at your time of life, and of course it must tell on any constitution if it’s kept up too long. You’re not the man you were, T.; and of course you couldn’t expect it.”
Such were Tom Daly’s sad outlooks into the world. And sad as they were, they seemed to be justified by circumstances as they operated upon him. There could be no hunting in County Galway next session unless things were to change very much for the better. And there was no prospect of any such change. “It’s nonsense talking of a poor devil like me being ruined. You ask me what property I have got.”
There in the silent hours of the night, while the old man lay near his death in the adjoining chamber, had she with infinite care and much slow preparation done that deed, to undo which, were it possible, she would now give away her existence,—ay, her very body and soul.
But the whole question, as it then stood, was this, that although the God of the law was the same as was preached in Christ, yet there was a disparagement of His law.
But three hundred a year goes a long way at Munich, and Isa’s parents were willing that she should be Herbert’s wife if such an income should be forthcoming.
Our friend had taken his seat, and was already resolving, with his eyes fixed on the table, where he would make his first plunge.
“I hope she will not come again.”
The church was distant, but nevertheless the tones came sharp upon him with their clear music.
I don’t have you home to dinner not one day in the week through the year.
He makes in men the beginning and the completion of the faith in Jesus who made the man Jesus the beginner and finisher of faith; [Hebrews 12:2] for thus, as you know, He is called in the epistle which is addressed to the Hebrews.
[Romans 16:1-2] But in this instance he bore witness to her of her zeal so far as help went (only:) but Priscilla and Aquilla went as far even as death for Paul's sake; and about them he thus writes, saying, Aquila and Priscilla salute you, who for my life's sake laid down their own neck; [Romans 16:3-4] for death clearly.
She talked about the scenery, and the charms of the old place, and the dullness of the people around them, and the inexpediency of looking for society in country places; till after awhile Mr. Belton was once more at his ease.
Then Mrs. T. and the girls would have had a merry time of it; and the Tappitts would have come out of the contest with four or five hundred a year for life instead of the thousand now offered to them, and nobody would have blamed anybody for such a result.
Nor does he solace only, but also shows what he says to be trustworthy.
‘That would not have been civil,’ said Aunt Polly; ‘and as you insist on my asking him, I do not wish to be rude.’ And so the letter was sent as it was written.
“If Jack isn’t old,” said Mrs Neverbend, “I, at any rate, am older, and I say the same thing.”
Suppose Nicobulus to be the worst of men:— though his only crime is that through me he is an object of envy, and more free than he ought to be.
“She is so very arrogant,” said Bella,—”and so domineering.” To this Mr. Gibson made no reply.
But he would urge that his books were all in London; and that, even were he willing to move them, there was no room for them in Popham Villa.
Then Simon said: [But what if souls are from him, and do not know him, and he is truly their father?]
Of the accusations made against herself she would certainly tell her father, unless they were withdrawn as far as her own husband could withdraw them.
“Oh, Mr. George!” he said, just before they went to the churchyard, “we are grass of the field, just grass of the field; here to-day, and gone tomorrow; flourishing in the morning, and cast into the oven before night!
Is this the man those people mutilated after his murder by cutting off his right hand?
Seeing, then, that you know the integrity of our faith from my plain utterance and profession, it is right that you should have no further scruple of doubt with respect to the Church of the blessed Peter, Prince of the apostles: but persist in the true faith, and make your life firm on the rock of the Church; that is on the confession of the blessed Peter, Prince of the apostles, lest all those tears of yours and all those good works should come to nothing, if they are found alien from the true faith.
That, of course, which shall be given.
“You mustn’t let him go on with this lawsuit,” Mr. Honyman had said.
Mr. Masters had made a claim upon him since he had been in England for £127 8s.
“Again, ma’am?”
For ourselves who are His Body He has willed to prefigure also in that His Body wherein already He has both died and has risen again, and into Heaven has ascended, in order that whither the Head has gone before, there the members may be assured that they shall follow.
And yet ye had seen water at the marriage turned into the marriage wine; one nature becoming another nature, whether it were by change, or by development, or by creation.
To Undy a warmer reward must surely be due: he had been placed fairly on the world’s surface, with power to choose between good and bad, and had deliberately taken the latter; to him had, at any rate, been explained the theory of meum and tuum, and he had resolved that he liked tuum better than meum; he had learnt that there is a God ruling over us, and a Devil hankering after us, and had made up his mind that he would belong to the latter.
“And yet there was somebody!” She pouted her lips at him, glancing up into his face for half a second, and then again hung her head down. “Mary, do not grudge me my delight.”
Hitherto Major Grantly had never even spoken to Mr. Crawley.
That young lady had been very sick and very selfish; and Miss Viner had been very sick also, and perhaps equally selfish.
From the beginning, he means, you have had this excellency. You received from your forefathers the faith unfeigned. For the praises of our ancestors, when we share in them, redound also to us. Otherwise they avail nothing, but rather condemn us; wherefore he has said, I am persuaded that in you also. It is not a conjecture, he means, it is my persuasion; I am fully assured of it. If therefore from no human motive you have embraced it, nothing will be able to shake your faith.
Were he once the father-in-law of the eldest son of a marquis, he thought he might almost be safe.
“Well, signora, I am here.”
Long may it remain so.
If an Angel appearing took away the Prophet's voice and strength, would the appearance of God have allowed him to breathe?
Is he speaking of fleshly, bodily birth, or of the formation of inanimate objects?
For thence one may learn with certainty that the commendation is given not from favour, nor of necessity, nor from repute, but in accordance with truth and an unflattering judgment.
Know, O man, whose breath it is that you have to keep you in life, and you shall not wish that it be polluted.
For what grasping of the hands is to the body, that is interchange of language to the soul.
[John 12:13] And the blind men also say, Son of David, have mercy on us.
“Yes,” said he, “I hope to make you my wife.” She tossed her head, and told him that with all the will in the world to sacrifice herself, such sacrifice could do him no good if he persisted in making himself a drunkard.
It would be a lengthy matter were I to pass in review each several place where we read of His being made, not indeed by nature, but by way of gracious dispensation.
Against all that she must guard herself, without thinking of the diamonds.
But observe carefully and learn in what sense Scripture says that any man may give his body to be burned.
How then, say you, do they not suffer punishment?
Chapter 30 [XXVII.]— Sin is Removed by Sin
“No, Biddy; why should I turn Protestant? but you see there’s rasons why we couldn’t be married here; we’re to be married in Dublin, tomorrow.”
And then he saw what there was before him.
John 8:16
It was declared that good taste required that he should be addressed as he chose to be addressed.
The people that had a heart of stone, by a Stone He set at nought, [Matthew 21:42] for lo, a stone hears words. Witness its work that has reproved them; and you, you deaf ones, let the pearl reprove today.
When he thought of what it might be to be Squire of Llanfeare in perhaps five years’ time, with the rents in his pocket, he became angry at his own feebleness.
And is not, on this account, philosophy rightly called by Socrates the practice of Death?
Thus having shamed them from those that are without, he next brings forward himself also, which kind of thing is a most excellent method of teaching: and accordingly we find him every where doing so.
You fancy that you are a teacher and a Bishop, while (O wretched blindness) you are denying His Divinity, His Divinity (I repeat it) whose priest you claim to be.
For it was spoken from the beginning to those only who understand.
[Matthew 19:28] For as that is called the regeneration of washing whereby we are renewed from the filth of sins washed away, so that seems to be called a regeneration by which we are purified from every stain of bodily materiality, and are regenerated in the pure sense of the soul to life eternal; so that every quality of regeneration may be purer than of that washing, so that no suspicion of sins can fall either on a man's doings, or even on his very thoughts themselves.
The matter was altogether so distasteful to Lord George, that more than once during the interview he almost made up his mind that he would withdraw altogether from the work, and at any rate appear to take it for granted that the child was a real heir, an undoubted Popenjoy.
Thou badest me, he says, eat upon dung, and I ate upon it.
He had been told by that false one that her tidings had been sent to her friend.
The works which My Father has given Me, the same bear witness of Me.
Sir Magnus Mountjoy, the late general’s elder brother, had been for the last four or five years the English minister at Brussels.
They charge us with betrayal of the sacred books; they charge us with persecution; they charge us with false baptism: to all their charges make the same answer about the followers of Maximianus.
We have seen this Tribune of the people carried through the town on a British war-chariot.
No, he says; for I am not now regarding what he deserves to suffer, but what it behooves me to do.
If those debts only were meant which are forgiven by Baptism, it would befit catechumens rather to say, Forgive us our debts.
As for thinking about it, that was altogether beyond her.
[Genesis 28:10-19] This is prophetic.
Nevertheless, he has deemed it expedient to take the advice of a certain friend as to turning the tumbledown house into profitable shape.
If he be not on the spot there is no one to whom misfortune can appeal or whom iniquity need dread.
Do you think John Hiram intended to give a hundred a year to old single men, who earned perhaps two shillings or half-a-crown a day for themselves and families in the best of their time?
those who are then left.
This is the office of the Commissioners of Internal Navigation.
Chapter IV. Zoroaster
He had assumed an assured face and a confident smile while declaring to his mother that no power on earth should stand between him and his promised wife,—that she would be able to walk out from her father’s hall and marry him as certainly as might the housemaid or the ploughman’s daughter go to her lover.
Neither, then, the poor, nor the mean nor even the diseased, nor the slave, can be one of them.
But if it is absurd to say that a man is in death before he reaches death (for to what is his course running as he passes through life, if already he is in death?
We do not disdain to look upon bodies which are defective in beauty, especially seeing that our souls themselves are not yet so beautiful as we hope that they shall be when He who is of ineffable beauty shall have appeared, in whom, though now we see Him not, we believe; for then we shall be like Him, when we shall see Him as He is.
“Why should you suppose that, Mr. Bertram?”
“It is very generous,” she said.
“Almost immediately.”
If any one lives in chastity or continence, let him not be lifted up, lest he lose his reward.
But how about her mother when she should have thus thrown herself overboard from the ship and cast herself away from the pilotage which had hitherto been the guide of her conduct? Why—why—why had her mother deserted her in her need? As she thought of her mother she knew that her plan of rebellion was nothing; but why—why had her mother deserted her?
The devil stands grinding his teeth, watching to destroy you every way, and you remain unconcerned, or concerned only about this satanic ornament.
Your son would tell me that he understands it a great deal better than an old fogie such as I am.
The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and by his stripes we were healed.
But still some softness was there; and when she heard that Miss Trefoil had gone, and that her visit had not, in Mrs. Hopkins’s opinion, “led to much,” she wrote to say that she would return.
He went to the Earl’s house just at eleven, not wishing to seem to avoid the Earl, but still desirous of seeing as little of his friend on that occasion as possible.
Quæautem viro subjecta est, turris est mortis iis, qui ea utuntur.
“You flatterer! You dear, bonny lover. You whom I had always loved and prayed for, when I knew not where you were! You who had not left me to be like Mariana, but had hurried home at once for me when your man’s work was done,—doing just what a girl would think that a man should do for her sake. But it had been all destroyed by the necessity of the case. I take no blame to myself.”
How, therefore, will a leader be born from Judea, and how far will he proceed from Bethlehem, as the divine volumes of the prophets do plainly announce; since none at all is left there to this day of (the house of) Israel, of whose stock Christ could be born?
For there are certainly among us many weak and sickly, and many sleep.
What is more fearful than this tribunal?
And if remarks injurious to his conduct were made by the Stantiloups and the Momsons, they did not reach his ears.
And if He did not hinder Aaron, because of his offense, from entering upon the High Priesthood, will He hinder you, who has come out from the Gentiles, from entering into salvation?
Sir Felix had not the courage to say that he expected to get the girl he loved. But as the man waited for an answer he was obliged to say something. “I suppose it’s the old story,” he said.
Because it was not with pain that He bore these things.
“Ah, sir, but you will have words,” said she; “you must have words. Why have you had so many words with that Signora Neroni? Why have you disgraced yourself, you a clergyman, too, by constantly consorting with such a woman as that—with a married woman—with one altogether unfit for a clergyman’s society?”
And we say, that if those persons have any resemblance to robbers, who on account of their piety towards God suffer all kinds of injury and death, that they may keep it pure and unstained, according to the teaching of Jesus, then it is clear also that Jesus, the author of such teaching, is with good reason compared by Celsus to the captain of a band of robbers.
and sent it off again on its journey.
She was afraid to allow herself to think that such a thing could happen, and put the matter away from her,—uneasily, indeed, but still with so much resolution as to leave her with a conviction that she need not give any consideration to such an hypothesis.
He speaks again of another Spirit of the Lord Who is the Spirit—that is to say, according to your interpretation, of another essence.
So the lessons had been given,—and had gone for more than had been intended.
It is inscribed, Unto the end, a Psalm of David, a song of Jeremiah and Ezekiel, on account of the people of transmigration when they were beginning to go forth.
“Yes, father; I have known my own mind always in this matter. It was not fitting.”
For the Omnipotence of the Son of God, whereby He is by the same Essence equal to the Father, might have rescued mankind from the dominion of the devil by the mere exercise of Its will, had it not better suited the Divine working to conquer the opposition of the foe's wickedness by that which had been conquered, and to restore our nature's liberty by that very nature by which bondage had come upon the whole race.
The Germination of the Earth.
But that passage also, where it says: I have given you as a God to Pharaoh, shows the power of the giver rather than the Divinity of him who receives the title.
Then follows, Give thanks to the God of gods, for His mercy endures for ever [Psalm 135:2].
“I will do anything that you can dictate short of that,” he said again to Father Marty.
Well now, for my own part, I shall resort to no affected protestation, but simply reply that was may be predicated of everything— even of a thing which has been created, which was born, which once was not, and which is not your Matter.
The story of any incident, to be realistic, will admit neither of sesquipedalian grandeur nor of grotesque images.
John Eustace and the bishop had combined in demanding them on behalf of the heir, and a lawsuit had then commenced!
Are you a king then? Jesus answered, You say that I am a King. To this end was I born.
It was still the voice of a raven!
For men ought to fear and to tremble, both because of conscience, and because of the burden of the office; and neither when dragged to it should they once for all decline, nor, when not dragged cast themselves upon it, but should even flee, foreseeing the greatness of the dignity; and when they have been seized, they ought again to show their godly fear.
Yes, sir, you know that not one of the party would have dared to propose to Mr. Macdermot to have a share in murder.
For having come out, some of them from the worship of idols, and others from the senate, or from the first civil offices, for the sake of the miserable exemption from duty and for the patronage they gained, and having bribed the Meletians who preceded them, they have been advanced to this dignity even before they had been under instruction.
What peace?
Therefore, after so many things, He asks these questions, secretly leading them on to confess Him also to be God. And the disciples He asked first what the others say, and then themselves; but these not so; for surely they would have said a deceiver, and a wicked one, as speaking all things without fear. So for this cause He inquires for the opinion of these men themselves.
It was too notorious that the Civil Service was filled by the family fools of the aristocracy and middle classes, and that any family who had no fool to send, sent in lieu thereof some invalid past hope.
You set holy things in the front, in order to persuade men of what is untrue: and by means of your confession of God you contrive to deny Him whom you are confessing.
For Joseph, says he, her husband, being a just man.
Are not then the gifts of ministration Christ's, while they are also the gifts of God?
Have they run backward over the passages, and then gone on, not quite sure what the author has meant?
That career could not have been open to him; but a sufficiency of the sweets of the peerage would be his own if he could see his daughter a Marchioness.
Nothing to her was so distasteful as failure.
The evil lusts profess that they know God, but in works they deny Him.
“But how? The man comes here and proposes himself; and is accepted, and then breaks away from his engagement without reason and without excuse. It is a thing to be thankful for, that he should have done so; but we have also to be thankful that the fault has not been on our side.” Miss Altifiorla had almost brought herself to believe that the man had made love to her, and proposed to her, that she in a moment of weakness had accepted him, and that she now had been luckily saved by his inconstancy.
It was a face, she said, such as I know not that I had ever seen, awe-inspiring, yet tempered with gentleness and mirth; for it was wholly unadorned by art, and had nothing counterfeit.
No father who had thoroughly done his duty by his son, could speak in a more fixed and austere manner.
But as for loving you, you don’t even believe that she loves you.
Thus when she found herself riding alone in Rotten Row with Siph Dunn, she was neither disconcerted nor displeased.
For let us suppose, by way of illustration, that a great mass were torn from a high rock, and cast down headlong, and when clashed upon the ground were broken into many pieces, could it in any way happen that, among that multitude of fragments, there should be found even one which should have any perfect figure and shape?]
Why do they look upon them?
But this man had been true to her to the last in spite of her treachery!
And I will explain, as I shall be able, here also, how this was done, as much as may seem sufficient.
Therefore this blind movement of chance is to rule the whole of life, and no Providence is any more to pervade the world.
I had much to tell also of those Bedouins; how they were essentially true to us, but teased us almost to frenzy by their continual begging.
Not therefore, says he, by display of eloquence, neither armed with arguments from without, do I declare the testimony of God.
“We are not allowed to appoint those gentlemen ourselves.”
For lust strength is required.
If, then, he had not heard the law, nor conversed with the Jews, how could there be wrath, indignation and tribulation against him for working evil?
We have no word of their deaths, as would have been the case had they all fallen.
What crime could be worse than that committed by Caldigate against the young lady he had betrayed, if Caldigate were guilty?
I beheld then the voice of the great words which the horn speaks: and the beast was beat down, and his body destroyed, and given to the burning flame.
There remains one reason for suicide which I mentioned before, and which is thought a sound one—namely, to prevent one's falling into sin either through the blandishments of pleasure or the violence of pain.
He instantly went to the writing-table and took up paper and pen. “Come along,” he said. “You are to dictate it.” But this she refused to do, telling him that he must write his letter to his father out of his own head, and out of his own heart. “I cannot write it,” he said, throwing down the pen. “My blood is in such a tumult that I cannot steady my hand.”
Let him surpass the desires, let him conquer the lusts of the flesh.
I had to undergo an agonizing revulsion of feeling, during which Mr. Green’s behaviour to me was at first so considerate and then so kind that it has gone far to cure the wound from which I have been suffering.
“It’s a deuced good thing for him, and he ought to be very much obliged to me for putting him in the way of getting it. But he told me to tell you that if he didn’t call, you were not to be angry with him.”
That custom of the country was good and valid, and wise.
It was written then, but was published a few months afterward.
[Exodus 22:20] And again: They worshipped them whom their fingers made; and the mean man has bowed down, and the great man has humbled himself, and I will not forgive them.
For nothing could perish on earth save what they would be ashamed to carry away from earth.
“Oh, do you name the day. We never have many engagements, you know.”
In those early days, when the Constitution was being framed, there was nothing to force the small States into a union with those whose populations preponderated.
But now I have sent you the very wool and the purple from the Lamb, by whom we were redeemed and quickened; which, when you have received, you will make into a coat for yourself according to your own will, and the rather that you will rejoice in it as your own private and special garment.
The influence of the brother and the uncle sat heavily on them.
Since that I have learned to look at the business with eyes less enthusiastic.
Meantime there is one thing which we see, from which I think it was said, "He that regards the day, regards it unto the Lord," [Romans 14:6] for God judges every day.
D., The Evil One prevails not over all those that revile him: but for me he that has cursed me and he that curses me, come into my hands.— 8.
She would have wished to justify this supposed confidence, and was almost sure that Mr Palliser expected her to do so in this instance.
Then there came words—into his mind, not into his mouth—”The Lord sent the thorn, and the Lord has taken it away.
For the sea is this world, but God made also the sea: nor can the waves rage save only so far as to the shore, where He has marked their bounds.
“Well,—yes; if she is one. It is very easy to see the difference. Some people are of use and are always doing things. There are others, generally women, who have nothing to do, but who can’t be got rid of. It is a melancholy sort of feeling.”
But even that, bad as it would be, might be preferable to the meeting!
But a great portion of this again has lost all its volcanic appendages; except, indeed, that lumps of lava are scattered over the whole of it, as they are, though more sparingly, over the mountain beyond.
Suspect him of common vile dishonesty!—’You will never ask me to see her again —will you, Alaric?’
[Luke 15:11-32] So, then, in wanton, that is to say, in darkened affections, lies distance from Your face.
Chapter 8.— Of the Method to Be Pursued in Catechising Those Who Have Had a Liberal Education
But if, says he, you call yourself a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest your boast of God, and know His will, and triest the things that are different, being instructed out of the law; and art confident that you are yourself a guide of the blind, a light of them that are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, which hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law.
The salmon with the hook in its throat was in a position certainly not intended by Nature.
Nay, all the dearly-prized blisses, and transports, and comforts of marriage end in these agonies of grief.
Such is the language of Libanius the Sophist.
Chapter 36. The Saracens, under Mavia their Queen, embrace Christianity; and Moses, a Pious Monk, is consecrated their Bishop.
Crassus, too, was dead, whom, on account of his wealth, Caesar had admitted as a colleague.
Up, man, and at her with a constant heart.
'Wherefore if they pretend to foretell the future, let no one give heed, for often they announce beforehand that the brethren are coming days after.
And here he makes excellent regulations with respect to them.
That the ruler should be a near neighbour to every one in compassion, and exalted above all in contemplation.
A comparison of persons must be decided, not by vigour of eloquence, but by the excellence of the works which they have done.
He means not only His flesh, but the virtues of the Son, like the sunbeam which penetrates to the lowest places—this sunbeam coming in the flesh became palpable to the disciples.
But they were deceived in this foolish expectation: for the friends of the slain, while they rejoiced at the faithfulness of the deceased, deeply lamented the loss of the corpses, and spread abroad a full account of the cruelty that had been perpetrated.
And thou, therefore, who hast undertaken to wage a complete combat with the devil, think not to pursue a life without danger, and full of luxury!
“I see all that,” said Cousin George.
To all this Florian made very little reply; but Mr. Jones remembered that he could not expect to do much at a first attempt.
They could agree that the wickedness of the wicked was very wicked.
Chapter LXVIII. The Squire Is Very Obstinate
In this condition any real exercise of the mental faculties becomes an exertion too great to be endured, — a labour too severe for the strength.
For although we see that the city is in the world, we do not see that it follows that any things belonging to the city pertain to the world.
To live for thee shall satisfy both my heart and my ambition.
A man speaks to the things within him, that they may bless God, and says unto them, all that is within me bless His holy Name!
Besides, this was said in respect of the Jews.
[Matthew 11:25] And the Lord spoke of Himself, as we read in the Gospel: You call Me Master and Lord, and you do well, for so I am.
What skill has been attained in measures and numbers!
“Then I’m contented, and will leave the moral of it for Mr. Cornbury. I’ll tell you something further if you’ll let me.”
For it is a passion, as the children of the physicians say, already exceeding the bounds of nature.
“I suppose you’re in earnest about that girl,” said Poppins. Poppins had an offhand, irreverent way of speaking, especially on subjects which from their nature demanded delicacy, that was frequently shocking to Robinson.
What magnanimity in his executors!
And this Proserpine herself, he says, signifies the fecundity of seeds.
The fool loves in vain.
“Yes,—you have been friends! She’s diddled you out of your money, and that’s the beginning and the end of it. And now, if you go on showing off your friendship, you’ll be done out of more money. You’re making an ass of yourself. That’s the long and the short of it.”
So, my dear friends, shall we say that you too, during this fast, while celebrating the mysteries of Christ's passion, live after the manner of devils, and are deluded by a seducing spirit, and speak lies in hypocrisy, and have your conscience seared with a hot iron?
Everywhere, in your public pursuits and private duties, antiquity is repealed; all the authority of your forefathers your own authority has superseded.
They seem to be so, but that, I take it, arises from the exceptional mental depression of those who have to listen to them.
Had he intended to ask her to love him?
[Psalm 116:15] These things do thou say continually: by these be instructed.
You too have this treasure if you look into yourself: For we have this treasure in earthen vessels.
“Love her! what a bother there is about loving! Well;—I’ll look in. What time do the animals come to feed?”
He’ll never explain the sugar-duties to you, and there’ll be no Mr Bott at Nethercoats.” They sat together the whole morning,—while Mr Palliser was seeing to the springs and cushions,—and by degrees Alice began to enjoy her happiness.
Letter 64
I.— From the Latin Translation of Cassiodorus.
But our rivals, and especially heretics, if they see different opinions maintained by us, will assail us with the calumny that our differences are due to mutual jealousy.
The Christ was twofold— the visible man, the invisible God.
Till he was my own, I never even pressed my lips upon his.
“But I tell you, they won’t be there at all tomorrow, unless you come down to them tonight,” answered Pat.
The things which are in heaven are gathered together when what was lost therefrom in the fall of the angels is restored from among men; and the things which are on earth are gathered together, when those who are predestined to eternal life are redeemed from their old corruption.
And Dorothy herself, when she had concluded her speech, was frightened by her own energy and grew red in the face, and showed very plainly that she was half ashamed of herself.
It was very long, and as it repeated all the details of the evidence for and against the verdict, it shall not be repeated here at its full length.
We of course demanded two rooms,—but as to that she was stern.
I choose to have an answer, sir.
To be returned as a bad shilling, which has been presented over the counter and found to be bad, must be very disagreeable to a young woman’s feelings.
The phrase If so be that here is put for because, which we also use, in speaking of things that are quite evident and not to be denied; instead of saying, Because it is exceedingly righteous.
But I confess that a force of sorrow strikes through my soul from contemplation of this order of ministry.
Then the reviewer went on in favour of the artist of whom he was specially speaking, making a comparison which must at the time have been odious enough to some of the brethren.
“There be a mon there who be a’most dead,” said the boy, hardly able to speak from want of breath.
But I will briefly state my subject, and afterwards most fully pursue it, promising that God neither could have been, nor ought to have been, unknown.
Night has passed away; the light reigns.
‘Send what you want,’ said J.B.; ‘but pray don’t send what you don’t want.’ I wanted two great coats, a rug, a blanket, two or three changes of linen, a suit of clothes, a pair of boots, a pair of slippers, a brush, a toothbrush, a bit of soap, two towels, a mosquito net, and a big stick.
When I read this, and reflected that I must somewhere or other have made a slip in my words (for if any man does not go wrong in word, the same is a perfect man) and was expecting that he was about to expose some of my faults; all of a sudden I came upon the words: Two days before the carrier of this letter set out your declamation against me was put into my hands.
“And what could they do to me?”
36. This the more striking, if we consider the opposing forces out of which this order is produced.
This alludes, perhaps, to what he said to them in the Acts, that he had some knowledge that the Gentiles also were called.
This seems to me altogether incongruous.
He perceived that George’s thoughts on this subject were by far too transcendental, that he was childishly indifferent to his own interests, and that if not brought to a keener sense of his own rights, a stronger feeling as to his position as the only nephew of a very wealthy man, he might let slip through his fingers a magnificent fortune which was absolutely within his reach.
Lord Palmerston spoke on the last day; and as he went down to the House, day after day, all the people cheered him.
It had been decided that the trial must be postponed at any rate till the summer assizes, which would be held in Cambridge about the last week in August; and it was thought by some that even then the case would not be ready.
But whether brute or no, he was an honest man, and had no remotest dream, either then, on that morning, or during the following days on which such thoughts pressed more quickly on his mind—of breaking away from his pledged word.
Chapter 28. More Recognitions.
“I believe Mr. Crawley is a cousin of yours?” said the major.
So far they were right, no doubt.
But the poor man, you will say, is insulted by him that is rich. Again you are declaring to me the praise of poverty. For who, I pray you, is blessed, the insulter, or the insulted? It is manifest that it is the insulted person. But then, the one, covetousness, urges to insult the other; poverty persuades to endure. But the poor man suffers hunger, you will say. Paul also suffered hunger, and was in famine. But he has no rest. Neither had the Son of Man where to lay His head. [Matthew 8:20]
She was bound not to subject him to the sorrows which would attend him were he to become her husband.
Since these things are so, because it were too long to treat thoroughly of all that in that Pound of Dictinius are set down as precedents of lying, meet to be imitated, it seems to me that this is the rule to which not only these, but whatever such there be, must be reduced.
The parlour and the bedroom over it had been papered;—but the paper was torn and soiled, and in sundry places was hanging loose.
You are like steersmen in the vast sea.
And there were some joking questions asked and answers given as to Miss Altifiorla’s presence.
And one has attempted to establish this, and another to establish that.
He now threatens me with publicity.
Chapter 3 [III.]— The Catholics Praise Nature, Marriage, Law, Free Will, and the Saints, in Such Wise as to Condemn as Well Pelagians as Manicheans.
“Ah;—that’s because you’ve never above half spirit enough for a big thing. You nibble at it instead of swallowing it whole,—and then, of course, folks see that you’re only nibbling. I thought that Melmotte would have had spirit.”
This is the man of divine understanding, so influential, and of such dignity in gait and dress, that, like a spiritual Hippocrates, he is able by his presence to relieve the sickness of our souls, provided, however, we are willing to submit to his treatment.
Reproach is like the application of medicines, dissolving the callosities of the passions, and purging the impurities of the lewdness of the life; and in addition, reducing the excrescences of pride, restoring the patient to the healthy and true state of humanity.
The latter claims Paul in its own support more than the former Moses; if, indeed, it is claiming him in its support when it catches at his indulgence, (but) refuses his prescript— eluding his more deliberate opinions and his constant wills, not suffering us to render to the apostle the (obedience) which he prefers.
He had wanted her,—and it is so painful a thing to miss what you want when you have done your very best to obtain it!
“And all old port?” said Jones.
And to show that it is still future, in case it should be thought that what is spoken of as accomplished in hope has been accomplished in reality, he adds, "that He might show in the ages to come the exceeding riches of His grace in His kindness towards us in Christ Jesus."
“But there’s a clergyman there, I’m told.”
None at all, but loss to the utmost, and avoidance of all that had been gathered together with much labor.
Appian tells us that in the Senate Cicero hastened to congratulate Cæsar, assuring him how anxious he had been to secure the Consulship for him, and how active.
“I have commands to lay upon him all the same,” said Clara; “and if he will give me half an hour this morning he shall have them.” To this Captain Aylmer, of course, assented,—as how could he escape from such assent,—and a regular appointment was made.
“Yes; why not? She’ll come, I’m sure, when she knows that my back is turned.”
He was very anxious, therefore, to see “her leddyship’s” cousin.
Thus, although, when spread out in several hands, supreme authority seems to be multifarious, yet in its own powers, nature, and condition, it is unique.
That poetic turning of the sword into a sickle, which gladdened our hearts ten or twelve years since, had been clean banished from men’s minds.
Had all the country called me thief, and did I know myself to be clear, I too could bear it.
Besides, Fanny thought that Lord Kilcullen had behaved generously to her when she so violently repudiated his love: she believed that it had been sincere; she had not even to herself accused him of meanness or treachery; and she spoke of him as one to be pitied, liked, and regarded; not as one to be execrated and avoided.
And I say the same.
Let us not then cherish the love of the present life beyond what is necessary.
The love of money is a good and useful love.
Ver. 3. When they are saying peace and safety, then sudden destruction comes upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall in nowise escape.
These things might be treated at very great length, and our knowledge of the subject might be brought to greater certainty and fullness by a large induction from relevant facts.
In those days I read a little, and did learn to read French and Latin.
And much fruit truly did Samuel reap from his children!
I have never desired to win money, and I have lost none.
He having gone out and found another servant owing him a hundred pence, seizing his throat demanded them with great cruelty and inhumanity.
“I dare say you did, sir.”
Tea and bread-and-butter were her luxuries, and her tea and bread-and-butter had been enjoyed three hours ago.
From which it is evident that the soul is something like God.
It came to have a terrible aspect to me, as did that proposition that I should sit out all the May meetings of a season.
All things in nature are good in their own order; and no one sins in using them, unless, by disobedience to God, he transgresses his own order, and disturbs their order by using them amiss.
That poor cripple who can scarcely drag himself along, owes his support to the help of a tender girl.
Who represented him as having watched over Alcmena for nine nights without ceasing?
“Very well, Johnny,” said the earl, talking to his young friend with the bedroom candle in his hand, as he was going up to dress.
Surely fear to die, if you can avoid dying.
“I don’t care about money,” said Tom.
I speak not my own words, but those of the Spirit of God.
But the fear of God contains both these requisites.
Chapter 117
Such also was Cicero.
He was afterward employed by Cæsar, who, when in power, may have recalled him from banishment.
Sir Thomas was well aware that such words had been spoken, but he knew his wife, and knew how little such words signified.
[John 21:16] asking it, knew He not so much as this?
He too is cast down to the ground.
But to the Dean the triumph was a triumph indeed and the joy was a joy!
The Apostle then looking in us for the righteousness which is of Faith, cuts at the root of incredulous doubt and godless unbelief.
That might be fancy, but it certainly was a fact that Mr. Monk only nodded to him.
Menivolus, being firmly attached to the Catholic Church, refused to write the document, and the empress tried to bribe him by promises of greater honors.
Starting, then, from this rudimental form and prop, as it were, he applies a covering of clay, and so gradually completes the limbs, and forms the body, and covers the cross within with the shape which he meant to impress upon the clay; then from this design, with the help of compasses and leaden moulds, he has got all ready for his image which is to be brought out into marble, or clay, or whatever the material be of which he has determined to make his god.
Africanus found his triumphs not among the altars of the Capitol, but among the lines of Hannibal.
The former persecutor.
One prohibited slavery in the new Republic,—a clause so easy to put into a treaty, but one of which it is so impossible for an outside power to exact the fulfilment!
If there was in his country any tradition, any custom, any law hateful to him, it was such as had reference to the preservation of game.
We stayed at Newcastle over a Sunday and went up to service in the camp.
How many edifices there shall then be, of gold or of hay, built on the best foundation, Christ Jesus, which that fire shall prove, bringing joy to some, loss to others, but without destroying either sort, because of this stable foundation!
With the Cherubim, with the Seraphim!
The Serapiqui is a fine river; very rapid, but not so much so as to make it dangerous, if care be taken to avoid the snags.
[1 Corinthians 15:10] O mighty teacher, confessor, and preacher of grace!
She felt that she could not leave her husband without other cause than now existed, although she felt, also, that to go back to him was to go back to utter wretchedness.
She knew to what a man turning himself might probably lead.
He desired, unconsciously, to fill up the void made by the death of his son with as little trouble as might be.
So also are the greedy of gain: or rather not so, but in a much worse condition.
Indeed, it is the soul which is principally affected by casualties of such a kind.
The Jews are wont to glory in this Psalm which we have sung, saying, Known in Judæa is God, in Israel great is the name of Him: and to revile the Gentiles to whom God is not known, and to say that to themselves alone God is known; seeing that the Prophet says, Known in Judæa is God.
If then you will listen to me, this is what you will do, and I claim to be listened to, for this is justice.
But though Lord Palmerston must resign also with his chief, and appeared for the time as the second in command of a beaten army, it was to him a moment of great triumph.
For it is written: But God has revealed them to us by His Spirit, for the Spirit searches all things, yea the deep things of God.
A legion of demons having been, as I believed, cast out of me, I wished to forget those whom I had known, and to rest at the feet of the Saviour; and lo it is said to me, so as to compel me against my will, Return to your house, and declare how great things the Lord has done for you [Mark 5:19].
“I think you hardly understand just what I feel,” said Roger, “and I know very well that I am unable to explain it. But I wish to act exactly as I would do if she were my daughter, and as if her son, if she had a son, would be my natural heir.”
When the prefect and Macedonius arrived at the gates of the church, the soldiers endeavored to force back the people, in order to make way for these dignitaries, but as they were so crowded together, it was impossible for them to recede, since they were closely packed to the farthest point, or to make way; the soldiers, under the impression that the crowd was unwilling to retire, slew many with their swords, and a great number were killed by being trampled upon.
For long ago to the faithful the trumpet of the Gospel lesson sounded, warning them that at the approach of the end of the world wars and many other things, which, as you know, are now feared, would come to pass [Matthew 24; Luke 21].
For it is also capable of sleeping, or, when the objects of sensation are not present, of not exercising the power of sensation.
“That is nonsense, aunt. It is indeed, for neither of us wish it.” A lie on such a subject from a woman under such circumstances is hardly to be considered a lie at all. It is spoken with no mean object, and is the only bulwark which the woman has ready at her need to cover her own weakness.
“Well, I for one never approved of the hounds coming to Greshamsbury. When a man has once involved his property he should not incur any expenses that are not absolutely necessary. That is a golden rule which Mr Gresham ought to have remembered. Indeed, I put it to him nearly in those very words; but Mr Gresham never did, and never will receive with common civility anything that comes from me.”
None can serve two lords.
That seat in the House of Commons was to him nothing.
Again I put this question to our author.
“Nothing more than that, Mr Griffith.”
They have had their chance on this occasion, and they have not done any good with it.
But there are some people for whom the pretended mystery of initial letters has a charm, and who love the darkness of anonymous letters.
But Captain Dobbin does become the hero, and is deficient.
Such was Katie Woodward, whom Charley was not to marry.
I cannot be your wife, if you will not have me; can I?
Whether the labour be economically used is another question; but at any rate the fifteen hundred rogues are disposed of, well out of the way of our pockets and shop windows.
Chapter 12. Praise of the Ephesians
If there were no hell, if there were no punishment, yet, after those contracts, those marriage torches, the lawful bed, the procreation of children, the intercourse, how couldest thou bear to join yourself to another?
For neither do the remaining heresies present much difference of aspect from this, having a mutual connection through (the same) spirit of error.
Take the will and take Llanfeare, and let me escape from my misery,” then surely they would not force him to appear in reference to a matter which would have been already decided in their own favour.
In what manner was God working within?
This had happened in the winter and spring previous to the opening of our story,—and both Patience and Sir Thomas had been well disposed towards the young man’s suit.
During this period he saw Owen Fitzgerald; but he did so in the presence of Mr. Somers, and not a word was then said about Lady Clara Desmond.
I beg that it may not be considered from this that I would propose to Canada to set up for itself at once and declare itself independent.
Are all the bishops to be considered not only sacrilegious, but silly into the bargain, because they carried that most worthless thing, dust and ashes, wrapped in silk in golden vessel?
Of course I think they are bad, and of course I think that they must go.
As for that cheerfulness, that reconciliation to his fate which she desired, he knew it to be impossible.
“Mary is a very nice young person,” said the Marchioness.
“The long and the short of it is, Mrs Baggett, that I am going to be married.”
But even at Hamersham the glory of the Dales had, at most periods, begun to pale, for they had seldom been widely conspicuous in the county, and had earned no great reputation by their knowledge of jurisprudence in the grand jury room.
Of the Honourable George we may further observe, that, having been a spendthrift all his life, he had now become strictly parsimonious.
He was making out some such solution, when Lizzie returned with the morocco case in her hand.
Mr. Webb presents his compliments to Mr. Brown. Mr. Webb regrets that he cannot comply with the request made in Mr. Brown’s letter of yesterday’s date.
And this God has well ordered, that from excess so much mischief should arise; that when of your own will thou dost not practise self-restraint, at least against your will, for fear of so great ruin, you may learn to be moderate.
For even this is a gift of His visitation; viz., that he receives and commends the grateful one, and looks for and censures those who are thankless.
Other women again tie about them the names of rivers, and venture numberless things of like nature.
Sing praises to our God, sing praises [Psalm 46:6].
As Madame Staubach thinks that you should accept them, you must know that you are wrong to answer me with scorn and ribaldry.
“And you won’t come in time for church?”
And why should she refuse him?
“I’m sorry they ever tried, M. Chapeau; but I remember when you came back, after taking Saumur, you told me the war was over then. You used to think that a great thing.”
What does one say then?
“And how will you answer it?”
But the persecution was continued in such a manner as to show him that all opposition on his part would be hopeless unless he were to proceed on some tour as prolonged as that of his future brother-in-law.
“If it is to be so, there can be no good in not saying so at once.” Then she thought, also, that if this were to be her destiny it might be well for Mr Grey that all his doubts on the matter should be dispelled.
“I dare say not. I have been reading about it in that woman’s travels. Oh, here they are, and I mustn’t make any more faces. Duchess, do come to the fire. I hope you’ve got warm again. This is my cousin, Miss Vavasor.”
Perhaps then, too, this one, the debtor of many talents who was brought to the king, has, as we have said, a wife and children, whom at first the king ordered to be sold, and also all that he had to be sold; but afterwards, being moved with compassion, he released him and forgave him all the debt; not, as if he were ignorant of the future, but, in order that we might understand what happened, it was written that he did so.
And then God shall send a king from the sun, who shall cause all the earth to cease from disastrous war.
In all other respects your tailor is a very pleasant man with whom to wile away a quarter of an hour in chance conversation.
She says that you never write to them, and she supposes that I have the advantage of all your energy in that way.
“Fancy a girl like Emily Wharton,” said he, not condescending to notice her little joke, “throwing over a fellow like Arthur for a greasy, black foreigner.”
Chapter V. George Hotspur
Not a word was said about Margate on that occasion, till the little pecuniary transaction was completed.
How with a strong wind?
how I do so wish you had stayed at Bullhampton!
“The threat means nothing, Mary. People who make such threats don’t carry them out. Of course I shall go on and endure it. The worst of all is, that the whole thing makes me so unmanly,—makes such a beast of me. But I’ll try to get over it.”
At the gates is the beginning: begin with confession.
You may therefore pluck up your courage and be confident.” From this we perceive that he had already formed the idea that he might perhaps be required to fight for his position as a Roman citizen; and it seems also that he understood the cause of the coming conflict.
And that which follows contains at once accusation and love, though the more abundantly I love you, the less I be loved.
Whence also it is well added, And all the idols of the house of Israel were portrayed upon the wall [Ezekiel 8:10], inasmuch as it is written, And covetousness, which is idolatry [Colossians 3:5].
If it be the case that this monument be of the date named, it proves to us, at least, that the notion of erecting such monuments was then prevalent.
But as Fussala is forty miles distant from Hippo, and I saw that in governing its people, and gathering together the remnant, however small, of persons of both sexes, who, not threatening others, but fleeing for their own safety, were scattered here and there, my work would be extended farther than it ought, and that I could not give the attention which I clearly perceived to be necessary, I arranged that a bishop should be ordained and appointed there.
He is not a bad man, or a hypocrite, because he denounces heresies and lax doctrines in a loud voice, instead of endeavouring to teach his people simply that they should not He, or get drunk, or steal.
“Then it will be put off for another year or two, and you are both of you as old as Adam and Eve already.”
But not even this induces us; more foolish are we than any, putting golden necklaces about our servants and mules and horses, and neglecting our Lord who goes about naked, and passes from door to door, and ever stands at our outlets, and stretches forth His hands to us, but often regarding Him with unpitying eye; yet these very things He undergoes for our sake.
But then, should the money not be forthcoming, the consolation coming from the possession of Gertrude herself would hardly suffice to make him a happy man.
Hence it naturally happened that the disaffected in Africa reached such a pitch of violence as even to venture on overt acts of audacity; some evil spirit, as it seems probable, being jealous of the present great prosperity, and impelling these men to atrocious deeds, that he might excite the emperor's anger against them.
with them that know Me
And he had, but that morning, instructed his lawyer to stand out against the ponies.
But the brethren were in haste who came to us from your company.
Chapter V. Difference Between the True Religion and Philosophy
“Very well; now you have been explicit with a vengeance, and you may heave a-head. Let’s hear the story, and if I can help you I will. When I’ve said that, you may be sure I mean it. I’ve heard something of it before; but let me hear it all from you.”
Do they not abuse your gods to make to themselves gain, and do not the others find enticing pleasures in the wrongs and insults offered to the gods?
For He gained life for us by overcoming death. No hope, therefore, of gaining immortality is given to man, unless he shall believe in Him, and shall take up that cross to be borne and endured.
And so too in the case of those whose separation from the Church is open; for neither these nor those are as yet among the members of the dove, but some of them perhaps will be at some future time.
Stoned, suffering unnumbered cruelties, yet did he all things for their good.
Before this the hosts of his enemies have disappeared: by this the powers of the unseen spirits have been turned to flight: through this the proud boastings of God's adversaries have come to nought, and the tongues of the profane and blasphemous been put to silence.
But if by clouds are understood good and true prophets only; by these too it is clear that God rains snares upon sinners, although by them He waters also the godly unto fruitfulness.
“No, she’s not. How should she be well? She’s anything but well. She’ll be in directly, but she thought I ought to see you first. I suppose this wretched man is really mad.”
He was wretchedly thin and gaunt; indeed, his hollow, yellow cheeks, and cadaverous jaws, almost told a tale of utter starvation.
How then were those in unity who were not at peace?
In the gospel clay was placed on the eyes of a blind man and when it was washed off eyes were produced.
“Don’t be afraid; I’ve got him; he shan’t desert you; I’ll hold him here till you have told me how your father does.” The young lady looked as if she didn’t like it, and the sight of her misery gave rise to a feeling that, after all, mammas perhaps may be a comfort.
Victor Constantine Maximus Augustus, to Eusebius of Cæsarea.
“My dear, they’d know as well as I do, that you would give way after three months.”
And also Cleanthes, the Stoic, who writes thus in a poem on the Deity: —
“Oh, yes. The truth is, ma’am, that he has offered himself to my girl, and that she has accepted him. Whether it’s for good or for bad, the open truth is the best, Mrs. Tappitt.”
By Him the Lord has willed that we should taste of immortal knowledge, who, being the brightness of His majesty, is by so much greater than the angels, as He has by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.
“But are they not good and kind?” she said, pleading for her friends.
And now, having narrated this interview in a manner which does not make it redound very much to that gentleman’s credit, I must add to the narrative his apology.
But as for that good and honest instruction which they speak of, it was given in such secrecy, and to so few (if indeed given at all), that they seemed rather to fear it might be divulged, than that it might not be practised.
“I suppose he is a goose,” said she to her mother, “and I hope there won’t be any more of this kind running after them while they are with us.”
She had known too well what had been the nature of her brother’s life, but she had not expected or feared any such termination to his career as this which had now come upon him—to the terrible affliction of all belonging to him.
During this week he saw nothing of Medlicot, and never mentioned his name but once.
Tormented [or ill-treated], he says; that is, suffering distress, in journeyings, in dangers.
“Then we shall do very well at Brussels.” After this she waddled off again, and was stopped in her waddling by Sir Magnus, who sternly desired her to prepare for the august ceremony of going in to dinner. The one period of real importance at the English Embassy was, no doubt, the daily dinner-hour.
I will believe no man who tells me that he would not sooner earn two loaves than one—and if two, then two hundred.
Even more voracious bites take nothing away from the credit of such as are initiated, whether servants or masters.
If Scripture is uncertain, Nature is manifest; and concerning Nature's testimony Scripture cannot be uncertain.
Even this is not without the supporting evidence of a preceding figure.
“I mean to say,” said she, speaking loudly, and with her arms akimbo, “that William Brisket is a very respectable young man, with a trade,—that he’s got a decent house for a young woman to live in, and a decent table for her to sit at.
In about a quarter of an hour, a knock came to the breakfast-parlour door, and Mrs. Jones, having been duly summoned, entered the room with a very clean cap and apron, and with a very low curtsey. “Good morning, Mrs. Jones,” said Mr. Prendergast; “pray take a seat;” and he pointed to an armchair that was comfortably placed near the fire, on the further side of the hearthrug. Mrs. Jones sat herself down, crossed her hands on her lap, and looked the very personification of meek obedience.
O what listlessness!
He is actuated by a sense of honesty, but he certainly has no desire to be incommoded by relatives who would, as regards the family, claim to be superior to himself.
In nothing therefore, he says, whatever happens, whether dangers— whether plots.
But to what can this be due save to the rational soul, in which man thinks of and perceives things beyond himself?
And smoking flax shall He not quench. Here he sets forth both their anger that is kindled, and His might that is able to put down their anger, and to quench it with all ease; whereby His great mildness is signified.
The First Apology
The Englishman, on the other hand, will have no ballot-box, and is by no means inclined to depend exclusively upon voters or upon voting.
(for the two shall be (made) into one flesh): but whoever is agglutinated to the Lord is one spirit?
Him want to take all him money to the grave; but no, no, no!
Mrs. Proudie kept Mr. Slope and her daughters in close conversation, resolving that he should not be indulged, nor they polluted.
The second Bill of 1881 was passed, which, with various additions, has given rise to Judge O’Hagan’s Land Court.
I did not myself make any special visit to the Old De Beer mine.
It was settled, however, before dinner, that they should both go down the Wheal Mary Jane on the following day. Neverbend had done what he could to keep this crowning honour of the inquiry altogether in his own hands, but he had found that in this respect Tudor was much too much for him.
In the first place, because that which has pleased God is fulfilled.
“And what does Colonel Osborne say?”
You, who so much reproached those who take in hand to write without logical skill?
But it seemed to her that she could not rouse him by conciliation.
For this reason, no one can possibly now share with you the reward that will follow your generosity, since the good deed has been entirely your own.
“But he has been faithful. And you can’t expect him to look at these things as you do.”
He made a thousand resolutions as to reading, writing, and employment for his mind.
For as men, upon receiving some great good, ask themselves if it is not a dream, as not believing it; so it is with respect to the gifts of God.
On this occasion he built a good dining-room, with a drawing-room over it, and bedroom over that; and this portion of the edifice was slated.
“Well; and what of Haby? What’s the matter now?”
But the Greeks make no mention of the histories which give the truth: first, because they themselves only recently became partakers of the knowledge of letters; and they themselves own it, alleging that letters were invented, some say among the Chaldæans, and others with the Egyptians, and others again say that they are derived from the Phœnicians.
[John 1:17] For the law was given through the mediation of Moses, but truth and grace were through Jesus Christ.
On what points have you borne with us, that you should adduce your patience?
“I had some faint hope,” continued the Earl, “while Laura could always watch him; because, in his way, he was fond of his sister.
For as we assert that it is impossible for God to be evil, or not to exist-for this would be indicative of weakness in God rather than of strength-or for the non-existent to exist, or for two and two to make both four and ten, so it is impossible and inconceivable that the Son should do anything that the Father does not.
Not that the Scriptures always speak in a strict sense; but where it is necessary, they so keep a word to its perfectly strict meaning, that they do not allow anything else to be understood.
Bonteen and Finn left the club within a minute of each other.
“Nor would I have you,” shouted Tribbledale, leaning out over the door of the cab.
For in some monasteries where they are not so careful some who have been received unreservedly have afterwards tried most sacrilegiously to demand a return of that which they had contributed and which had been spent on God's work.
“It don’t much signify. Well;—I’ll go on with Mrs Hurtle, if she’ll have me.”
As, however, the opportunity is presented to us we must not pass this by.
And what can be plainer than that the righteous also are not spared, but chastised with manifold afflictions, as is clearly implied in the words, "If the righteous scarcely are saved"?
While then in the other cases which I have mentioned above, I employed much labour in supplying what Origen had omitted, in this work on the Epistle to the Romans the labour that fell on me for the causes described in the Preface was immense and full of complexity.
Seek not then more than is needed.'
“That you did not consent to your own ruin and disgrace?”
Would that he had been as careful to preserve grace, as strong to overcome the beast!
I do hope they’ll hang ‘un,” said Mr. Runce quite out loud from his crowded seat just behind the attorney’s bench.
He replies, If I make (Myself anything,) My honor is nothing.
Among the farmers one pound nine and eightpence had been collected.
One of these is, that he refuses to infants the sacrament of baptism, and promises the kingdom of heaven to some, independently of Christ's redemption.
Acting in accordance with his fixed and conscientious rule in this respect, Undy Scott had struck up an acquaintance with Alaric Tudor.
This was, in truth, the case.
The Holy Life is open to all, men and women alike.
But he could not go down from being Prime Minister and serve under some other chief without acknowledging himself to have been unfit for the place he had filled.
Refutation of All Heresies (Book VIII)
And yet she could scrutinise his features, form, and garments, so as to carry away in her mind a perfect picture of them.
Horrors heaped on horrors, which are horrors only in themselves, and not as touching any recognised and known person, cease even to horrify.
On its summit is a castle, having its own legend, and professing to have been the residence of Charles VII., when little of France belonged to its kings but the provinces of Berry, Auvergne, and Le Velay.
Among her plans the first in order was a resolution to see Lord Mistletoe whom she knew to be in town.
Next, while the Jews sought to kill the Lord, because He said that God was His own Father and made Himself equal to Him, as working what the Father works, the Arians also, not only have learned to deny, both that He is equal to God and that God is the own and natural Father of the Word, but those who hold this they seek to kill.
But on this account God willed that virtue itself should be concealed under the character of folly, that the mystery of truth and of His religion might be secret; that He might show the vanity and error of these superstitions, and of that earthly wisdom which raises itself too highly, and exhibits great self-complacency, that its difficulty being at length set forth, that most narrow path might lead to the lofty reward of immortality.
“Oh such a beautiful place. The Temple of the Winds, I think they call it, or Venus;—or—or—Mrs. Arthur de Bever.”
Amelia left the culprit, feeling that no good had been done, and Lady Fawn did not see the delinquent till late in the afternoon.
Before he will face the danger with his army he sends over a trusty messenger, to look about and find out something as to the coasts and harbours.
He was thus in a measure compelled to accede to the request made to him, and Lord Carstairs was received back at Bowick, not without hesitation, but with a full measure of affectionate welcome.
On her arrival she went at once to her room, and there she continued to live as she had done for the last few days till the morning of her departure came.
And she was angry with herself at allowing herself to be turned out of the house before the crisis had come. She felt that she ought to have been present at the crisis, and that by the exercise of her own powers she might have hurried on the crisis. In this respect she was by no means satisfied with herself.
“My head not cool!” said Rowan. “It’s as cool as a cucumber. I wasn’t drinking last night.”
So far is he from terrifying you, he says, that he even praises you: so far from being a hindrance to you, that he even works with you.
For the Saviour had a body neither without soul, nor without sense, nor without intelligence.
If any further assistance were required from him, he would probably be called on, and should be again happy to come forward.
Linda and Katie had been so hurried off, that they had only been just able to shake hands with Harry and Charley. There is, however, an old proverb, that though one man may lead a horse to water, a thousand cannot make him drink. It was easy to send Katie to bed, but very difficult to prevent her talking when she was there.
And their sin is much less who strive to understand well and fall, than that of those who do not at all strive after good things.
“But he is a man,” said the father to the son, “who always does a rude thing if it be in his power.
And yet, notwithstanding, we say that he is not at himself.
7. The men of speech who keep not silence, from praising continually—who have kept me in the midst of waves, and supported me that I fell not, let them give praise in my stead, O my Lord!
“Of course you do. You don’t suppose that I expect anything else. But if you mean to tell me that there would have been all this row if she had been decently prudent, I tell you that you’re mistaken.”
And this we say, excepting, of course, the man understood to be in Christ Jesus, who did no sin.
You loved me then, Emily.
“I wish you wouldn’t think about it,” the son would say to the father;—and the expression of such a wish would contain the whole accusation.
It is this I suppose, that I said that souls should cherish their bodies as men cherish their wives, so that this corruptible may put on incorruption, and that, being lightly poised as upon wings, it may rise more easily into the air.
Faculties of the human body, if denied their exercise, will lie dormant.
No; it was his step on the stairs, and there he was in the room with her.
And the case is one the origin and end of which can hardly now be discovered, so densely are they enveloped in Zulu customs and past Zulu events.
The Marquis’s lawyer had ventured to express a doubt; but the Marquis had determined to persevere.
Phineas had been to Mr. Slide an enemy of enemies, and by all his ideas of manliness, by all the rules of his life, by every principle which guided him, he was bound to persecute Phineas to the last.
Eran.— They did.
But, nevertheless, Mr. Toogood might be wrong; and Mr. Harding succeeded in satisfying himself at last that he could not be doing harm in thinking that Mr. Toogood was wrong.
It was nearly six in the evening on a wet December night, and although cloaks and shawls had been supplied to her, she was wet and cold when she reached her home.
Chapter 25. Christ Thanks the Father for Revealing to Babes What He Had Concealed from the Wise. This Concealment Judiciously Effected by the Creator. Other Points in St. Luke's Chap. X. Shown to Be Only Possible to the Creator's Christ.
For I was an hungred, and you gave me to eat, and so forth.
Let virtue alone please us, whose reward is immortal when it has conquered pleasure.
“George,” said Kate, speaking before she quite got up to them, “will you tell me whether you have been preparing all your things for an open sale by auction?” Then she stole a look at Alice, and having learned from that glance that something had occurred which prevented Alice from joining her in her raillery, she went on with it herself rapidly, as though to cover Alice’s confusion, and give her time to rally before they should all move. “Would you believe it? he had three razors laid out on his table—”
He certainly has known her.
Chapter V. My First Success
If he has believed anything less in the Son or in the Holy Spirit than in the Father, he has suffered an offense in God; he is scorched by the sun.
She knew now that she might safely walk with him, being sure that he was no more likely to talk of love than would have been old Dr. Nupper had she accepted the offer which he had made her of a cast in his gig.
Therefore, when these times also were completed, and the Jews subdued, there afterwards ceased in that place libations and sacrifices, which thenceforward have not been able to be in that place celebrated; for the unction, too, was exterminated in that place after the passion of Christ.
He thought a moment how he would act, and then he spoke boldly to both of them. “I have hurried home from Kimberley, Mr Whittlestaff, on purpose to find Mary Lawrie.”
For this is He who forgives our sins.
From that to this present day Mrs. Carbuncle had seen nothing of Mrs. Hanbury Smith, nor of Mr. Bunbury Jones, but she was not the woman to waste the return-value of such a transaction.
Had she not consented to take everything from Mr Whittlestaff; her bread, her meat, her raiment, the shelter under which she lived, and the position in the world which she now enjoyed?
Hitherto the artist had not said a word, and had hardly known what part it would best become him now to play.
If he were destined to represent Percycross in Parliament, it must be by the free votes and unbiassed political aspirations of the honest working men of the borough.
[1 Samuel 1:13] Ask, says the Scripture, and I will do.
How senseless?
Also in Esdras, it was not sufficient for God when the Jews were laid waste, unless they forsook their foreign wives, with the children also whom they had begotten of them.
“The Conservatives, of whom I take the liberty to call myself one.”
It may be doubted whether grief or pain ever does of itself produce tears, which are rather the outcome of some emotional feeling.
Hill.]
Of course there has been anger and sorrow,—anger on her part and sorrow on mine.
Such was Plaistow Hall, and such was its mistress.
Was David born of adultery; being born of Jesse, [1 Samuel 16:18] a righteous man, and his own wife?
Do not think he has done this out of contempt: not as of contempt has he sent, but so he was ordered.
On the present occasion Mr. Glascock as he sat next to her almost proposed to her.
It may be as well to speak first of the faults which were attributed to it.
It was not any reason of that kind which had kept her silent.
[1 Corinthians 8:10] And shall he diligently protect by night those whom in the day-time he has put to flight by his exorcisms, leaning and resting on the spear the while with which Christ's side was pierced?
[Luke 10:41-42] Be then like Mary; prefer the food of the soul to that of the body.
“Certainly not by speaking to me,” said Lucy, blushing ruby-red through every vein of her deep-tinted face. But though she could not command her blood, her voice was still under her control—her voice and her manner.
When this controversy, indeed, first began, I am unable to say; but one thing I know, that even the holy Jerome, who is in our own day renowned for great industry and learning in ecclesiastical literature, for the solution of sundry questions treated in his writings, makes use of the same most certain assumption without exhibition of proofs.
The old women do the same.
All the things are good, when, in them, certain set over by way of pre-eminence, certain made subject in a becoming manner, observe the beauty of order.
It was for this that the persecutors sought after the saints, that there might be no one to teach, as the Jews charged the Apostles; but for this cause they endured all things, that the Gospel might be preached.
But one does see clearly enough, that as they are French in language and habits, and Roman Catholic in religion, they would make even a worse hash of it than the Jamaicans do in Jamaica.
The nature of this latter was susceptible of destruction, while the power of the former raised what was being destroyed.
[Matthew 26:60b] But at last there came two lying witnesses, and said, We heard him say, I will destroy this temple of God that is made with hands, and will build another not [26, 27] made with hands after three days.
“Who is the young lady?” asked Stubbs.
Chapter 12. — Second Day's Discussion.
Section 36
Neither did she feel abashed in coming to an assembly of men.
The Wakeful one wishes to sleep and will not hearken to the Saviour's words, What, could ye not watch with me one hour?
That was the thorn that stuck fast in her woman’s bosom.
She had wished for his advice; and at the instigation of his niece he had visited London and given it.
MRS. C. I wish you knew my heart towards you, with everything that is in it.
“Oh, Adolphus, for mercy’s sake don’t say so!”
Manes, however, received information of the king's intention, having been warned of it in sleep, and made his escape out of prison, and succeeding in taking to flight, for he had bribed his keepers with a very large sum of money.
It is therefore for the promotion of us, the assumed humanity, that God shall be all in all.
Chapter XX. Divorced for the Faith
“What did that fellow mean,” said he, “by saying in his letter to Mrs.
He knew that if every bullock and horse about the place had been struck dead it would not enhance his misery.
For they reject the mystery of man's salvation and refuse to believe that Christ our Lord in the true flesh of our nature was truly born, truly suffered, was truly buried and was truly raised.
Emily came forward and offered her hand, and was the first to speak.
Now God's plan seems to me to have been the same as that which prevails among ourselves.
I gave cheque to Mr. Crawley.
He knows The deep things of God; [1 Corinthians 2:10-11] the creature receives the manifestation of ineffable things through the Spirit.
And he had come to love the woman with excessive affection, day by day, ever since the renewal of their intimacy at Broughton Spinnies.
For so, by this comparison, the approved, who are known to God, are made manifest among men.
Some whispers had come to her that Fitzgerald still dared to love, as married, the woman whom he had loved before she was married.
When he was speaking concerning those Jews, he said, When, meanwhile, the customs of that most accursed nation have gained such strength that they have been now received in all lands, the conquered have given laws to the conquerors.
But count the tent-maker as well as your brother, as him that is borne upon a chariot and has innumerable servants and struts in the market-place: nay, rather the former than the latter; since the term brother would more naturally be used where there is the greater resemblance.
And then the worst of it was that he also would judge her as others judged her.
And then what was revealed was but a type; but now the truth has been manifested.
But these things are small when compared with what follows.
Let there be a thief, void of all shame, who knows not what blushing is, but steals openly in public.
“But I certainly would not employ a tradesman just at your elbow who has directly opposed what was generally understood in the town to be your interests.”
People of each sex and of all ages joined with alacrity and fury in this atrocious proceeding.
Peregrine and Augustus Staveley were walking on in front, not perhaps as well satisfied with the day as the rest of the party.
[Genesis 22:15-18] In this manner is that promise concerning the calling of the nations in the seed of Abraham confirmed even by the oath of God, after that burnt-offering which typified Christ.
“I am very glad that this affair has been settled between us amicably,” said Luke, while he still held the hand of the abdicating brewer.
“You are quite wrong in your ideas about the dance,” said Jack to his cousin.
Each one reaps the fruit of his opinions about the faith.
If we cannot endure threats, injustice, poverty, how shall we overcome the flames of Babylon?
There will at that day be no resumption of voluptuous disgrace between us.
‘Of course I am nervous,’ said Mr Philip Hughes next morning to the banker. ‘I hope you will excuse me, if I venture to ask for one word as to Miss Greenmantle’s health.’
[Romans 15:18] And again, For what is there wherein you were made inferior to the rest of the Churches?
And his wife was, as far as he knew, all that he desired.
So the remaining things carried in and heaped up by the other senses, I recall at my pleasure.
“I like you so very much,” he had said; “why should we not be friends?” She had gone away from him then, fleeing along the path, bewildered, ignorant as to her own feelings, conscious almost of a sin in having listened to him; but still filled with a wondrous delight that any one so good, so beautiful, so powerful as he, should have cared to ask for her friendship in such pressing words.
And yet she had liked it, and felt some little triumph as a conviction came upon her that she had not conspicuously disgraced herself.
How can a girl be angry with a man whose love is so good, so true?
But what of those things also which we see on the earth, or in the sea?
Why, then, do we not resort to that far more reasonable opinion, which has clear proof of being derived from men's common sense and unsophisticated deduction?
how much advice she had received during these creepings, and how often had she listened to inquiries as to the schooling of the gardener’s children.
She was almost sorry that it was so.
[Acts 27:24] But whatever the Son commands, this he considers to be the commandment of the Father, as those of the Spirit are the commandments of the Son.
Paul did go into the hotel, and did eat his dinner.
At last she determined that she would write a letter to M. Urmand, and show a copy of the letter to her uncle when the post should have taken it so far out of Granpere on its way to Basle, as to make it impossible that her uncle should recall it.
Her daughter usually spoke of her with affectionate regret as being unable to appear on that particular occasion on account of some passing malady.
Observe how wisely it is ordered that Paul should not preach at Jerusalem: the very hearing that he has become a believer, this of itself is enough for them; for him to preach, they never would have endured, such was their hatred of him: so he departs far away, where he was not known.
And he shows that this came about by God's ordering, who knew how to make a good use even of evil things; not that the vessels of wrath might be of advantage to Him, but that by His own good use of them they might be of advantage to the vessels of mercy.
For since this they sought earnestly, to find some handle against him, it is necessary to remove this also.
For the Word of God is not creature but Creator; and says in the manner of proverbs, 'He created me' when He put on created flesh.
But then the sister-in-law and the children disappeared, and it was incumbent on Lucy to fix herself somewhere.
And this is universally the case with matters referring to the body, inasmuch as when men are spiritual, there will be peace.
[Romans 2:6] And not only in hell, but also in the kingdom one will find many differences; for He says in my Fathers house are many mansions; [John 14:2] and, there is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon.
It cannot be held as astonishing, that that last decision on the part of the giants in the matter of the two bishoprics should have disgusted Archdeacon Grantly.
3. But what is, If such be the case of a man with his wife? That is, if to this end he is joined with her, that they should be one, or, on the other hand, if the man shall get to himself blame for these things, and always transgresses by putting away, it were easier to fight against natural desire and against one's self, than against a wicked woman.
He has reminded them of how many good things peace is the cause; on account of this He called you, for this He called you, so as to receive a worthy prize.
Max Bogen handed Linda over to his wife, and then disappeared. “Oh, Linda, what is it? Why are you here? Dear Linda.” And then her old friend kissed her, and within half an hour the whole story had been told.
For there is often one who, while he puts no restraint on his gluttony in food, is presently pressed hard by the stings of lechery, which is on the point of overcoming him, and who, when, terrified by the fear of this struggle, he strives to restrain himself through abstinence, is harassed by the temptation of vain-glory: in which case certainly one vice is by no means extinguished unless the other be fostered.
He therefore consoles by His promises your toil, your labours, your troubles, saying to you, He will not always be chiding.
But if ill, we can hardly salve our consciences by that little corner.
For God cannot be forced to do anything against His will, so that He should not be pleased with His own work; nor can He do anything by mistake, so that He should regret having done it.
Without this, nothing can be done of what we have already spoken of.
For if it be necessary to fear death, it is necessary to fear it when it comes upon us justly; since he indeed who dies unjustly, is by this very means made a partaker with all the saints.
She asked old Mr. Caldigate after his soul, and when he replied to her less seriously than she thought becoming, she told him that he was in the bad way.
Elizabeth left the room with her slow, graceful step, hiding her tears,—hiding all emotion, as latterly she had taught herself that it was feminine to do.
He did not know it for a fact, but he was in hopes of meeting the expiring Lord Chancellor.
[Euboulios] . Whether is it he that saves his vessel in great and perplexing storms, or is it he who does so in a breathless calm?
The Transvaal is said, and I believe correctly, to be very rich in other minerals besides gold;—but the travellers in new countries are always startled by sanguine descriptions of wealth which is not in view.
It would be, he had said to himself, a great thing for a man to do.
He excused himself saying that he was not particularly fond of big dinners, and that he did not like standing in the way of other people.
Nobody else came to the house then, or on the following morning, or on that afternoon, though Clara did not fail to tell herself that Captain Aylmer might have been there if he had chosen to take the journey and to leave home as soon as he had received the message; and she made the same calculation as to her cousin Will,—though in that calculation, as we know, she was wrong.
Either we pray always and are virgins, or we cease to pray that we may fulfil the claims of marriage.
This is the common rule and custom of those who undertake to explain books in commentaries: They give at length in their exposition the various opinions, and explain what is thought by themselves and by others.
The Apostle says, Do you not know that your bodies are the temple within you of the Holy Ghost, Whom you have of God?
He was not speaking of a bodily manifestation, of perception by the eye of flesh, but by that eye of which He had once spoken— Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then comes harvest?
“Sir Felix Carbury!” he said.
It will be remembered that this gentleman was the son-in-law of Larry Macdermot’s creditor, Mr. Flannelly; and it had been arranged between the two worthy relations that if, by some law-craft or other means, Keegan could obtain possession of the estate of Ballycloran in payment of the debt due by the proprietor, it should become his, Keegan’s, property.
But yet, as many said, it was power working only for evil.
She had resolved that she would not even ask herself a question about M. D., and yet she could not divert her mind from the inquiry.
For these reasons, then, the taxes had ceased to be paid.
However, though the Major wouldn’t join in a handicap, others would—and McKeon wasn’t baulked of his amusement. Men soon had their hands in their pockets, waiting the awards of the arbiter, which were speedily pronounced; and various and detailed were the descriptions given of the brutes which were intended to change hands; but not in general such as made those who got them satisfied with their bargains, when they afterwards became acquainted with their real merits.
Or what ears can hear it?
Nor are there two first principles; but the Father is the head of the Son [1 Corinthians 11:3 the beginning is One.
For just as material wealth increases if the lovers of it do not despise even the smallest gains, so is it also with the spiritual.
And thus the Manichean besets human nature with his detestable censure, and you with your cruel praise.
Forgetful of her sex, unmindful of her frailty, and only desiring to be alone she was in fact there where her soul lingered.
She would fade and fall to the earth like a flower with an insect at its root.
For it is of necessity that there be one most excellent of all, on whose account also every creature keeps its rank.
Why then does He condemn?
there should have been ice, sir, but I suppose they forgot it.” Where had Mrs. T. procured all that wine?
You shall therefore again be taught what is requisite, if God so will; with how great devotion and order you must enter in when summoned, for what purpose each of the holy mysteries of Baptism is performed, and with what reverence and order you must go from Baptism to the Holy Altar of God, and enjoy its spiritual and heavenly mysteries; that your souls being previously enlightened by the word of doctrine, you may discover in each particular the greatness of the gifts bestowed on you by God.
“Going to marry one of the girls, isn’t he?”
In Egypt and Antioch upon journeys xv months and xxii days: upon the property near the new river iv months.
If words ever convey to my ears a positive contradiction of the assertion which they affect to make, it is when they are grandly antethetical and magnificently verbose.
For no one, after going hence, shall arrive at fullness of righteousness, unless, while here, he shall have run his course by hungering and thirsting after it.
And so Ralph went back to town without again seeing the breeches-maker.
But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it [Romans 8:24-25]), his language even in that case would not be correct to the effect that to avoid sinning would be of us alone, although to sin would be of us, for even then there must be the help of God, which must shed itself on those who are willing to receive it, just as the light is given to strong and healthy eyes to assist them in their function of sight.
Quomodo etiam res est libera, intemperantia et turpis sermo?
They are fearful lest this birth of the Son from Him should deprive Him of His glory, and therefore come to God's rescue by styling His Son a creature made out of nothing, in order that God may live on in solitary perfection without a Son born of Himself and partaking His nature.
But though Sir Hugh was thus uncourteous to the rector and to the rector’s daughter, he was so far prepared to be civil to his cousin Harry, that he allowed his wife to ask all the rectory family to dine up at the house, in honor of Harry’s sweetheart.
But Mary was shy of acceding to such invitations, and at last frankly told her friend Patience, that she would not again break bread in Greshamsbury in any house in which she was not thought fit to meet the other guests who habitually resorted there.
And the stamp used in 1870 will certainly have varied its form in 1871.
“And why didn’t you ask her;—that is, if she stands upon asking to come to her old home?”
But that the Spirit in the inspired Scriptures is not speaking mainly of rivers to be seen with the eyes, may be gathered from Ezekiel's prophecies against Pharaoh, king of Egypt: Behold I am against you, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the great dragon, seated in the midst of rivers, who sayest, Mine are the rivers, and I made them.
Nothing had been done to him.
“And then he is such a low beast,” said Peregrine.
Here was that poor Crasweller, belying himself and all his convictions just to gain one year more of it, and then when the year was gone he would still have his deposition before him!
For on this account, though an evil man, he here received good things, that there he might receive evil things more fully, because here even by good things he had not been converted.
And we may rightly, in my opinion, apply to them the saying of Solomon: There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, [Ecclesiastes 10:5] a man wise in his own conceit; [Proverbs 26:12] and a still greater evil is to charge with the instruction of others a man who is not even aware of his own ignorance.
Where are we to find the accommodation, or how are we to begin to look for it?
“I am sure they are very good; but I think their mamma will prefer their being put by for the present.” This was very discouraging to Lucy.
If you are exposed to public infamy, says he, it is for your good; for he who is not exposed to dishonour among men is sure to be so before the Lord.
The self-restraint of the religious should not be gloomy, but sincere; no murmurs of complaint should be heard from those who are never without the consolation of holy joys.
He was there, close to her, with his arm still round her, and her fingers grasped within his.
But if souls, as you call them, are prevented and hindered by their fleshly members from recalling their former knowledge, how do they remember what has been arranged in these very bodies, and know that they are spirits, and have no bodily substance, being exalted by their condition as immortal beings?
The squadrons of the two leaders must drag me in different directions, for I acknowledge both as my masters.
Wherefore he says, And instil into them the word of truth, so that it may be inwardly learned ; for as yet they know not the word of truth as they ought to know.
He might have sold her to some lord who would have scorned her after a while and despised himself.
She shall be my daughter.
Julianus Augustus IV.
“You like our institutions, ma’am?” “Yes, indeed,” said my wife, not with all that eagerness of assent which the occasion perhaps required.
“But he’s a man that always loses his money at cards.”
Now I have told you.
Mr Ball, on his return home to the Cedars, had given no definite answer to his mother’s inquiries as to the day’s work in London, and had found it difficult to make any reply to her that would for the moment suffice. She was not a woman easily satisfied with evasive answers; but, nevertheless, he told her nothing of what had occurred, and left her simply in a bad humour. This conversation had taken place before dinner, but after dinner she asked him another question.
Do you see how he condemns God in you, who rejects the voice of the heavenly oracle: Hearken unto Me, My people, says the Lord.
In his emergency the barrister went to his attorney and told him everything. The two lawyers were closeted together for an hour, and Mr. Wharton’s last words to his old friend were as follows:—”I will risk the money, Walker, or rather I will consent absolutely to throw it away,—as it will be thrown away,—if it can be managed that he shall in truth go to this place without his wife.”
Her first and second days in her aunt’s house were very quiet.
For whosoever would save his own life shall lose it.
“For two reasons,” said Mary, slowly, and then she paused, as though doubting whether she would continue her speech, or give the two reasons which now guided her. But he stood, looking into her face, waiting for them. “In the first place,” she said, “I think you are untrue to another person.” Then she paused again, as though asking herself whether that reason would not suffice. But she resolved that she would be bold, and give the other. “In the next place, my heart is not my own to give.”
Nevertheless, the lover of man, though they acted with so much madness, both against themselves, and against their children, so far from confirming their sentence upon their children, confirmed it not even on them, but from the one and from the other received those that repented, and counts them worthy of good things beyond number.
Each man comes to God and brings before Him what he has said and thought about Him.
The little house in Brook Street,—for the house was very small and very comfortless,—a house that had been squeezed in, as it were, between two others without any fitting space for it,—did not contain a happy family.
[Luke 12:49] This was the fire which, when it was kindled in the disciples' hearts, constrained them to say: Did not our heart burn within us while He talked with us by the way, and while He opened to us the Scriptures?
It is asked, then, whether the Father also by Himself is wise, and is Himself His own wisdom itself; or whether He is wise in the same way as He speaks.
But at that time even mercy itself shall be allotted in righteous judgment in accordance with the merits of good works.
At the present moment she was inclined to be very positive, but he had hardly as yet given her an opportunity of speaking out.
But she would bear no more.
Disgrace yourself by marrying her, and your brother shall have everything.
Unless the engineers go seriously to work I shall be the last stranger that will ever visit the Cango Caves in a carriage.
“Ballycloran doesn’t belong to Thady, and he can’t tell him not to come.”
As he did so, he asked Alice to say a word to him out in the garden, having already explained to them both that it might be some time before he would be again down at Beetham.
He knew that she was bait with a very visible hook.
How should He glorify the Son with His own self, and with that glory which He had with Him before the world was made?
But in Natal military matters have had a stir given to them by the necessity of marching troops up to Pretoria,—at a terrible cost, and now an additional stir by Zulu ambition.
“I never do smoke cigars here, Gerard. I’ll offer you a cigarette.” The cigarette was reluctantly offered, and accepted with a shrug. “But you didn’t come here merely to smoke, I dare say.”
One present there was,—given not to the bride but to the bridegroom,—which he showed to no one except to her.
Of the same from his discourse about the Son:—
“Oh yes; he is always there. He’s a nice young fellow; a very fine young fellow; but—”
This assumption by the government of an unconstitutional power has, as I have said, taught many lookers on to think that the Americans are indifferent to their liberties.
But perhaps you will have heard it already, as everybody is talking of it here.
Whenever, therefore, any sheep separate themselves from this fold, which is expressly pointed out and shown to us by the unmistakeable declaration of the Lord,— and that, I will not say because of charges falsely brought, but on account of charges brought, as no one can deny, with great uncertainty against their fellow-men, and consequently slay those sheep which they have torn and alienated from the life of unity and Christian love— is it not evident that they are ravening wolves?
Verily all the inhabitants of earth do die, young men and old, little children and adults, for no age or bodily stature is exempt from death.
But the Lord our God, who is compassionate and merciful, who comforts them that are cast down, nourishing the infants, and cherishing the infirm, permitted him to gain in some measure success in this design, only to make us rejoice more over the prevention of the calamity than we grieved over the danger.
Tatian, the patriarch of the Encratites, who himself rejected some of Paul's Epistles, believed this especially, that is [addressed] to Titus, ought to be declared to be the apostle's, thinking little of the assertion of Marcion and others, who agree with him on this point.— Hieron.: Præf. in Com. ad Tit.
‘Of course, I learned it at school, but when one can only read words very slowly one can’t talk them at all.
Moreover, as we know that it is not demons, but angels, who have been set over the fruits of the earth, and over the birth of animals, it is the latter that we praise and bless, as having been appointed by God over the things needful for our race; yet even to them we will not give the honour which is due to God.
“And in the mean time your money has been enough?” said the doctor, after a pause.
And hence, since the marriage tie was from the beginning so constituted as apart from the joining of the sexes to symbolize the mystic union of Christ and His Church, it is undoubted that that woman has no part in matrimony, in whose case it is shown that the mystery of marriage has not taken place.
For not only was He Himself saved, but became to others also an abundant supply of salvation.
Cast me not away from Your face, and take not Your Holy Spirit from me.
Alaric, when he heard the wheels roll off, shook from him his lethargy.
But in creation nothing exists without a reason.
Two or three peers were absent, and so also was that editor who had been chosen to fill Mr Alf’s place.
He is subjected to qualifications which in truth debar him from the poll.
For verily I say unto you, Till Heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all come to pass.
But if these gods, who were worshipped specially in this behalf, that they might confer happiness in this life, either willed or permitted these punishments to be inflicted on one who kept his oath to them, what more cruel punishment could they in their anger have inflicted on a perjured person?
Carnlough was not above three Irish miles from Ballyglunin; and Mr. Jones started on the little journey without a misgiving.
For surely a rational being such as man has a higher rank in the nature of things than irrational ones, such as birds.
For, we are pressed on every side, yet not straitened, says he; perplexed, yet not unto despair; that is, 'we do not quite fall off.
But we have spoken sufficiently on the subject of providence in the first book.
In truth Marmaduke at this time was so expensive that Sir George was obliged to be a little hard.
And then he was sure that the Dean would be loud against any such arrangement.
But the question is one for the lady to decide,—and you must decide it now.
, could think and express himself clearly in what was to him a living and a cultivated language.
But He is God of God, and therefore God the Father stands to God the Son as God of His birth and Father of His nature, for the birth of God is from God, and in the specific nature of God.
And he well says, You have obeyed from the heart.
He says, For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the Gospel, not in the language of wisdom, lest the cross of Christ should be made void.
In this case, however, though the crime was one of unexampled wickedness, the man who was the victim of it was alive, and present in the flesh; and the hostile faction could be convicted and brought to punishment, when their tricks became known and their machinations were exposed.
“Nobody supposes the Duke did that,—or even the Duke’s servants, I should think. But Lord Chiltern will hear us if we don’t take care.”
He was somewhat of a bon-vivant, and a man who thoroughly understood dinner-parties; and with much good nature he took Frank under his special protection.
Mr Polwarth, the clergyman, who, as the old man could not come to him, went down the rocks to the old man, did make some hint on the matter in Mally’s absence.
Of his pupil Vandyke we possess a portrait — the portrait of Gevartius, whocver Gevartius may have been — that can hardly be surpassed.
After these remarks of Celsus, which we have endeavoured to answer as we could, he goes on to say, speaking of us: Again they will ask, 'How can we know God, unless by the perception of the senses?
As to Lord Chiltern,—he believed that Lord Chiltern had obtained his object by violence.
And this was no light consolation to them too.
The path was indicated to us, and off we started with high hopes.
The eighth was addressed to the people the day after Catiline fled.
It was Christmas, and her father’s presence would surely have justified them all!
I own I do like people who have got people belonging to them; you feel sure, in a sort of way, that they’ll go on living in their own houses.
You shall not die the death, says he for God knows, that on the day on which you eat, your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as Gods.
He would have been much pleased to talk about his nephew Lord Peterborough, and he loved his niece dearly.
For thus speaks the blessed Micah: The house of Jacob provoked the Spirit of the Lord to anger.
Chapter XVII. The Nature of God
Here again she acted in the more spiritual manner.
Parson John shrugged his shoulders, and shook his head, meaning to imply that it certainly was a bad case, but that as Colonel Marrable was a Marrable, he ought to be spared, if possible.
What then, it may be said, ought we not to pray in church? Indeed we ought by all means, but in such a spirit as this. Because everywhere God seeks the intention of all that is done. Since even if you should enter into your closet, and having shut the door, should do it for display, the doors will do you no good.
He, moreover, who shows attention to an admired and illustrious man, does it often for ostentation among men, but he who tends the abject and despairing, does it only because of the command of God.
He had blundered since, in saying that the dean had given it to him.
“Not a dollar,” said Peacocke, turning away and leaving the room. As he did so he heard the wretch laughing loud at the excellence of his own joke.
Thanks then be unto You, O Christ.
“That is all very grand, and I am perfectly willing to respect him. But I do not know that I should care to talk very freely in his company.”
“And if among you all, that are so set up against him because he’s not one of your own set, you dhrive him out of Ballycloran, I can tell you, I’ll not remain in it!”
For Death prevailed and devoured; and again, God wiped away every tear from off every face.
Frank then remembered that he could not tell openly the story of Mrs. Beelzebub. Rachel had told him in pure simple-minded confidence, and though he was prepared to disobey her, he would not betray her. “She is on the stage,” he said.
He considered upon the right hand, and saw: whoso considers upon the left hand, is blinded.
And that all this should have been kept under so long by policemen and right-thinking individuals, and then burst out like a subterranean fire all over the country, because the hope has been given them of getting their land for nothing!
If I ascend into heaven, You are there; if I go away even to the uttermost parts of the earth, there is Your right hand; if I make my bed in the abyss, there is Your Spirit.
After what had taken place any compromise between him and the lady was impossible.
I know she’ll have a place in the fly, and she’s very goodnatured.” In answer to this Rachel had written a separate note to Cherry, telling her friend in the least boastful words which she could use that provision had been already made for her coming and going.
“Mr. Moss, you are a brute,” said the lord.
I will make what I assert plain by an example.
So I was frightened, and only sent thirty shillings.
He kept himself to himself, and kept his opinion very much in the dark.
“All right,” he said; “I’m sure you didn’t mean anything.
“I hope to be able to keep her before long, and to do it much better than it has ever been done before. The truth is, Roger, you know nothing about it. If you’ll leave me to myself you’ll find that I shall do very well.”
“Then you may go away, Mr. Bozzle,” said Mr. Outhouse, impatiently. “You may as well go away at once.”
11. The Lord will give strength to His people [Psalm 28:11]. For the Lord will give strength to His people fighting against the storms and whirlwinds of this world, for peace in this world He has not promised them. [John 16:33] The Lord will bless His people in peace. And the same Lord will bless His people, affording them peace in Himself; for, says He, My peace I give unto you, My peace I leave with you. [John 14:27]
A few minutes after four, in a House from which hardly more than a dozen members were absent, Mr. Daubeny took his seat with that air of affected indifference to things around him which is peculiar to him.
Therefore let us keep him as a debtor bound, and release him not until he has paid.
Uzzah, when he touched the ark which it was not lawful to touch, was struck down suddenly by death.
Was He not seen on earth?
1 John 4:12-16
[Psalm 50:21, Septuagint] But may it not come to pass that any one of us hear this voice, but having wrought pure almsdeeds, and having our lamps burning, so may we enter into the bride-chamber by the grace and lovingkindness of our Lord Jesus Christ, to whom with the Father and the Holy Ghost be glory for ever and ever.
To Virgilius and Syagrius, Bishops.
Her face below her nose was very short.
And though I could say much more, brethren beloved, I purposely omit to do so, as deeming it to be burdensome at great length to call these things to the remembrance of teachers who are of the same mind with myself.
“Miss Waddington is a beautiful girl; and variable—as beautiful girls sometimes are.”
But the novelist will be assisted by no such feeling.
Miss Amazon will do it.
23. When she comes before Him who is rich,— she will show the treasure of the first—when she comes before the Saviour, she will show the saved ones of the next—when she goes forth to meet the Bridegroom,— she will show the oil of her lamps.
Now pray do not think this of me, if you wish to think of me aright.
But people who are fond of this style are apt to think that men who do not use it, but employ a more chastened style, do so because they cannot attain the former, not because their judgment teaches them to avoid it.
Had he loved her, and yet spoken evil of her to all their friends?
It is thou, forsooth, that travailest with a fresh one.
The showing of the works is an aid, not to ignorance in Him, but to faith in us.
“If she took it, she’d take me too. If she didn’t,—why I should still have the diamonds. I mean to try any way.”
“The Italians. They are already saying that you are not fit to be alone; and if once they get you into their hands,—under some Italian medical board, perhaps into some Italian asylum, it might be years before you could get out,—if ever. I have come to tell you what the danger is. I do not know whether you will believe me.”
Mrs. Carbuncle Goes to the Theatre
If Mr. Harding would not give way to Dr. Grantly, it was not likely that he would give way to Dr. Gwynne, more especially now that so admirable a scheme as that of inducting Mr. Arabin into the deanery had been set on foot.
Foolish, therefore, is every husband who separates his wife from the fear of God; for she who does not fear God is not afraid of her husband.
But he had worked his way back into his father’s good graces by his determination to stick to Neefit’s girl.
But they are much deceived, who think that we believe in Christ without any proofs concerning Christ.
There was nothing in the prospect which would frighten Lucy, though there might be a question whether he possessed the courage needed for so violent a change.
To them the coming of Cousin Henry, and the death of the old Squire, and then the departure of their young mistress, had been as though the whole world had come to an end for them.
And Owen did come.
For when Paul the apostle also was saying something concerning God before the Athenians, he adduced as a proof of what he said, that certain of them had said something to the same effect, [Acts 17:28] which certainly would not be condemned but recognized in them if they should come to Christ.
Whatever be the misery to be endured, get it over.
“Oh, I couldn’t leave Mr. Comfort; indeed I couldn’t,” said Mrs. Ray in alarm. “I couldn’t go away from my own parish church was it ever so.”
To Martin, Scholasticus .
The Sixth Commandment.
For, as we have said, the heart of the flock is, even as it were of right, set against preaching, if the care of external succour be neglected by the pastor.
“Do you mean that Captain Scarborough would pay all his debts?”
And yet he may probably be one who at College did not come near to the place which I had won.
I am learning every day how best to stand fast on my own feet.
See how by his bare words he exhorts them, on that side naming sin and on this God.
“And remember this; it is the deuce of a thing to have rheumatism in your loins. I wouldn’t go to sleep under a tree, if I were you,—not in October. But you’re always welcome to go anywhere about the place.”
But if you suffer no grievance, whence are you angry with him that has done you no harm, but has even benefited you?
“Mr. Green knows that we expect a great deal from him this evening.
But everything is changed now, since the railroads came up.
She is not the worse for not having children, but He fills up her need with consolation, in that she is without children.
These absurd and perverse errors have grown in boldness and godlessness till they assert that Jesus Christ was not Christ until He was born of Mary.
At Boston, and indeed elsewhere, I found that there was even then— at the time of the capture of these two men—no true conception of the neutrality of England with reference to the two parties.
[Luke 11:20] For in the same place in another book of the Gospel He named the Spirit of God, as you find: But if I by the Spirit of God cast out devils.
We maintain the answer given by piety.
‘My child, my own one, can I, your mother, think aught else of you? Do I not know your heart? Do not I know the very thoughts within you?’
And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by smote Him with the palm of his hand.
So it was with Augusta Gresham, when, with careful brow, she whispered to her mother that there was something wrong between Frank and Mary Thorne.
Orth.— How then do you say, God the Word tasted death? For if that which was created immortal is seen to be incapable of becoming mortal, how is it possible for him that is without creation and eternally immortal, Creator of mortal and immortal natures alike, to partake of death?
89. Can men indeed be loved by God as the Son is, in Whom the Father is well-pleased? [Matthew 3:17] He is well-pleasing in Himself; we through Him. For those in whom God sees His own Son after His own likeness, He admits through His Son into the favour of sons. So that as we go through likeness unto likeness, so through the Generation of the Son are we called unto adoption. The eternal love of God's Nature is one thing, that of grace is another.
But it is said Providence, from above, from what is of prime importance, as from the head, reaches to all, as the ointment, it is said, which descends to Aaron's beard, and to the skirt of his garment (that is, of the great High Priest, by whom all things were made, and without whom not even one thing was made [John 1:3]); not to the ornament of the body; for Philosophy is outside of the People, like raiment.
I’ll Sir Felix him some of these days.
But if you would know wherein we have the advantage, I save you by believing, but it is by stumbling that you have afforded us an access before yourself.
“Take his coral, my dear,” said she, “and rub it well with carrot-juice; rub it till the juice dries on it, and then give it him to play with—”
The whole symbol, then, when put together, appears to teach this: Oh you who are born and die, God hates impudence.
But the Word of God alone is visible, while the word of man is audible.
Hence in the traitor the Lord found this the worst point on which to condemn his treachery, namely, that he gave no sign of gratitude and had mingled the poison of malice at the table of friendship.
For he will not come so bending his knees, but exalting himself against all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he sits in the temple of God, setting himself forth as God.
Perhaps Mr. Prendergast had intended that such should be its effect.
Take up the epistle of the blessed Apostle Paul.
To all this a great deal of attention had been given by the hostess.
For I feared that, if I were to write to you without first hearing from you, you would consider me not so much a conscientious as a troublesome correspondent.
And in another place, [2 Chronicles 15:2] The Lord is with you so long as you are with Him: if you forsake Him, He will also forsake you.
“Poor fellow,—poor fellow! It would have been better for him to stay away.”
It is amusing to watch how a passion will grow upon a man.
She had found that the man’s ways were in no wise like her ways,—and she had found also that were she to become his wife, he certainly would not change.
“Felix,” she said, “you won’t mention that to Mr Montague!”
[Matthew 10:13-15] And how becomes it worthy?
“How could I tell you? Would it not have seemed that I was vain enough to have thought of putting you on your guard?”
[John 7:34] And you shall seek me, and shall not find me: [52] and where I shall be, you shall not be able to come.
Then shall be opened the eves of the blind, and the ears of the deaf shall hear.
Some say it was Eratosthenes of Cyrene who was first so called, since he published two books which he entitled Grammatica.The first who was called a grammarian, as we now use the term, was Praxiphanes, the son of Disnysophenes of Mitylene.
I have seen the foolish taking root, but their habitation was presently consumed.
He apologised for the necessity of some delay, arguing that he could not endure to see his young wife without the comfort of a home of her own, and that he was now, as he always had been, afraid of incurring debt.
The burial is a long and wearisome ceremony.
“Do you call that beer?” said a second.
But then there was the girl at his elbow, and he no more dared to tell her to her face that he meant to give her up, than he dared to tell Melmotte that he intended to stick to his engagement.
wall of the brewery opposite.
Should she leave the diamonds, or should she take them with her?
“He told me so.”
Examples are not far to seek.
Nay, for yourselves are to blame for this folly, who do not so much as think it is a sin, and hereby constrain us to enter upon the reproof of this extravagance.
My Dear Niece,
Chapter XIV. A Lover’s Perseverance
Therefore it gathers itself, as it were, into a sound state, and says, Praise the Lord, O my soul And then the soul, weighed down, as it were, and unable to stand up as is fitting, answers the mind, I will praise the Lord in my life [Psalm 145:2].
When falsehoods of that kind are told you can’t meet them in a straightforward way.
Lastly, why should we not confess that in spiritual men the Church is subject unto Christ, but in carnal men yet lusts against Christ?
And I keep His saying.
In the next place, remember that he, who came among you for the purpose of offering disinterested counsel, now enjoys the reward which is due to him in the judgment of heaven; for he has received no ordinary recompense in the high testimony you have borne to his equitable conduct.
And yet I do not know but what it would have been better that you should have stayed away.
Whence redeems He David His servant?
If any now takes offense at the existence of heretics, let him remember that it was so from the beginning, the devil always setting up error by the side of truth.
“I won’t pretend to understand how that may be, Colonel Osborne; but I think you must be aware, after what took place in Curzon Street, that it would have been better that you should not have attempted to see Mrs. Trevelyan. Whether you have seen her I do not know.”
And again, when they were hungry, a shower of heavenly nourishment descended.
“Where is the letter? Let me see it.”
And who would not say that the promise, Follow Me, and I will make you fishers of men, had been accomplished by Jesus in the history of His apostles by a sort of divine power?
Farewell, you lovers of my discourses, in your eagerness and concourse, you pencils seen and unseen, and thou balustrade, pressed upon by those who thrust themselves forward to hear the word.
For thus, even though one should grant that the soul is the creation of a good deity, it will be found to be but an idle work so far as the man is concerned, unless it also takes to itself the body.
Now the statements of the false witnesses, recorded in the Gospel according to Matthew and Mark towards the end of the Gospel, and the accusation they brought against our Lord Jesus Christ, appear to have reference to this utterance of His, Destroy this temple, and I will build it up in three days.
It was not by your own pains that you found out God, but while you continued in error, He drew you to Himself.
His cheeks had fallen away; his nose was contracted; his mouth, which he could hardly close, was on one side.
After the death of this bishop, however, the people became divided into two parties, and disputes and contests concerning doctrines were openly carried on.
When he had been, for this reason, excommunicated by the heterodox, he feigned a refusal to hold communion with them, because, they had unjustly admitted Arius into communion after he had perjured himself by declaring to the Emperor Constantine that he maintained the doctrines of the council of Nicæa.
There is one God, who sends rains, and winds, and earthquakes,
And just as, with the body, it is not so much the nature of the air, or the things it meets from without, as its own internal condition, that either injures or assists it, so also it is in the case of the soul; and much more so; for in the one case, there is the necessity of nature; in the other, the whole is seated in the power of choice.
[Ephesians 1:13] Of what promise?
Who compelled God to come down to earth, to take flesh of the holy Virgin, to be wrapped in swaddling clothes and laid in a manger, to be nourished with milk, to be baptized in the Jordan, to be mocked of the people, to be nailed to the tree, to be buried in the bosom of the earth, and the third day to rise again from the dead; in the cause of redemption to give life for life, blood for blood, to undergo death for death?
And thus, voyaging all the universal course of life without the rudder of reason, they know not how to shun the hurricane which is impending over the world.
And the stone which struck the image became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth.
In one case holiness of conduct merited the communion of equality; in the other avenging zeal brought out to view the just claims of authority.
What is, in the grace of God? Displaying the wisdom that is from Him, the power from Him given unto us, by the signs wrought, by overcoming sages, rhetoricians, philosophers, kings, peoples, unlearned as we are and bringing with us nothing of the wisdom that is without. No ordinary comfort and glorying, however, was this, to be conscious to themselves that it was not men's power they had used; but that by Divine grace they had achieved all success.
This teaching the apostle knows as truly divine.
It is, therefore, no monstrous thing partly to will, partly to be unwilling, but an infirmity of the mind, that it does not wholly rise, sustained by truth, pressed down by custom.
“Why not, Priscilla?”
This was the kind of thing which young ladies without dowry, but with hearts to love, are doomed to suffer.
“Why not?” said the sick man, who was sitting up in his bed.
A letter so sent would, as you have been informed, bear two postmarks, those of Sydney and of Nobble.
When the man had asked him that question,—Is there any secret you can tell?—Cousin Henry did, for half a minute, make up his mind to tell the whole story, and reveal everything as it had occurred.
If now you consider the question in connection with the advocates of different views, you will find the Epicureans and Stoics most keenly contending with each other, and the Platonists, on the other hand, endeavouring to decide the controversy between them, concealing the truth which they held, and devoting themselves only to prove and overthrow the vain confidence with which the others adhered to error.
Speak then after His manner, and you have become in this respect such as He, so far as it is possible for one who is a man to become so.
‘Because I do not care for him. Why won’t you let me remain with you, uncle?’
And so a certain part of our reason, not separated so as to sever unity, but, as it were, diverted so as to be a help to fellowship, is parted off for the performing of its proper work.
Is it because it follows, that whenever we name One who cleaves to One by a harmony so great that through this harmony both are one, this harmony itself must be understood, although it is not mentioned?
For I ask, why He compares His tongue to the pen of a writer writing rapidly?
And Katie—her sweet bonny Katie—she, at least, should be protected from the wolves.
God, they say, created all things out of that which was non-existent, and they include in the number of creatures, both rational and irrational, even the Son of God.
“Yes; Archie Clavering. I think Archie is a worse fellow even than Hugh. He makes more attempts to be agreeable, but there is something in his eye which I always distrust. And then he is a man who does no good in the world to anybody.”
Through the knowledge, then, as appears, of a bad and good life is the Gnostic saved, understanding and executing more than the scribes and Pharisees.
“Write her a letter—eh?” said George, who did not altogether dislike the advice, for it seemed to take from his shoulders the burden of preparing a spoken address. Though he was so glib in speaking about the farmers’ daughters, he felt that he should have some little difficulty in making known his passion to Miss Dunstable by word of mouth.
Mr. Bonteen, in his troubled spirit, certainly did misbehave himself.
And this perfect and absolutely complete virtue bestows on those who conquer, the crown and reward of immortality.
Therefore, from the Folking side there was no one but John Caldigate himself and John Jones.
But they bring preoccupied by legal observances threw impediments in the way of faith.
“You will find, I trust, that the churchwarden has everything in readiness. I have notified to him expressly your coming, with the purport that it may be so.”
There was a reality in the tone of sorrow in which this was spoken which melted him at once, and the more so in that there was so much in her grief which could not but be flattering to his vanity. “Do not say that, Lady Ongar,” he exclaimed.
It is indeed a weighty question, whether Nicolaus, being already severed from the Church, [Revelation 2:6] or Simon, who was still within it, [Acts 8:9-24] was the worse—the one being a heretic, the other a sorcerer.
The bee takes care not to make one vast cavity, for fear it might break under the weight of the liquid, and allow it to escape.
Yea, and after the Cross itself, what did He not do for their sakes?
But, since we are hindered by the devil from obeying God with our thought and deed in all things, we pray and ask that God's will may be done in us.
Chapter 18 Of the Date of His Departure into Galilee.
Was it because of our name, that that mad-cap Xerxes let the ocean in upon the land, and that he marched over the sea on foot?
“Let us all play,” said Mrs Conway Sparkes, “and then it will be nicer,—and perhaps warmer, too.”
“I’ll just step up to Lady Arabella now,” said the doctor.
“Yours most faithfully, “ JONATHAN BROWN.
“And when I found that you always travelled with ten thousand pounds’ worth of diamonds in a box, that surprised me very much. I thought that you were a very dangerous companion.”
Wherefore, brother, if ever you consider any action ought to be taken to uphold the privileges of the church of Antioch, be sure to explain it in a letter of your own, that we may be able to reply to your application completely and appropriately.
Apology for himself against the Books of Rufinus
“And we shall have none,” said Alice, smiling.
The Arverni, or at least their chief men, fear to oppose the Romans; but Vercingetorix obtains a crowd of followers out in the country, and perseveres.
May God Almighty forgive him all that he did amiss!
But what does he want with a wife like her?—making innimies for himself.
Whatever narrative of note, therefore, meets us in these 1020 years, shall be given in its proper place.
As if it could possibly hurt a good widow, if either she had not sons, or if those whom she had did not choose to continue in good works.
It might be that such real belief had never been hers.
She was not quite sure how far it might be her mission to reclaim such a man as Sir Lionel—this new Sir Lionel whom Miss Todd had described.
It was said to Christ in His own nation, a sinner is this Man: we know not whence He is: we know Moses, to him spoke God; this Man is a Samaritan.
Mr. Saul and Fanny remained long together on that occasion, and when they parted he went off about his work, not saying a word to any other person in the house, and she betook herself as fast as her feet could carry her to her own room.
For even if it is so, as indeed it is— nor would you yourself deny it after what you have done to me— yet it is well to hide our misfortune from the outside world, and persons who entertain but a moderate opinion of us.
And still the venerable dean went backwards and forwards slowly before them, urging them on, and still urging them on.
2. In his Hypotyposes he speaks of Pantænus by name as his teacher. It seems to me that he alludes to the same person also in the first book of his Stromata, when, referring to the more conspicuous of the successors of the apostles whom he had met, he says:
This judgment of yours, O Urbicus, does not become the Emperor Pius, nor the philosopher, the son of Cæsar, nor the sacred senate.
He had told her how he suffered when they two did not stand well together, and she feared to be accused by him of unkindness and ingratitude.
The very pith and marrow of life is baked out of their young bones by the hot-air chambers to which they are accustomed.
[Jeremiah 6:30] Again he said:— He will not again regard them.
On the 20th of the month all the guests came rattling in at Matching one after another.
Nor do I risk contradiction in saying that the very Scriptures were even arranged by the will of God in such a manner as to furnish materials for heretics, inasmuch as I read that there must be heresies, [1 Corinthians 11:19] which there cannot be without the Scriptures.
In the covenant of Moses is Your brightness shadowed forth: in the new covenant You dart it forth: from those first Your light shines even unto those last. Blessed be He that gave us Your gleam as well as Your bright rays.
For in the former charge, as there were many who kept (the ordinances), he began otherwise, saying thus: Now I praise you that you remember me in all things: but here contrariwise, But in giving you this charge, I praise you not.
[1 Corinthians 11:31] Think not, then, that thus to act comes of cruelty and inhumanity; nay, but of the highest gentleness and the most skillful leechcraft and of much tender care.
Where did you get your copy of the letter?
I will not speak of the ants' storehouses and storekeepers, and of their treasurings of wood in quantities corresponding to the time for which it is wanted, and all the other details which we know are told of their marches and leaders and their good order in their works.
Though he was thus instigated to haste he stood a few minutes with his back to the warm stove that he might be enabled to think of it all.
But gradually his heart had become softened towards her; in his illness he had repented of his harshness; he had not borne her continued absence easily, and had of late looked about for an excuse for accepting her lover.
And let no one think it strange that we call by the name of life a continuance of being which is interrupted by death and corruption; but let him consider rather that this word has not one meaning only, nor is there only one measure of continuance, because the nature also of the things that continue is not one.
They left the house together at about eight, and Polly at that time had not reappeared.
But now he was revengeful rather than despondent.
He would so much have preferred that she should not exist at all!
The burly barrister himself was not so sanguine.
The house was theirs till Christmas; between this and then he would think about it.
“No right! No right to ask a lady who sits under Mr Stumfold whether or not she is engaged to Mr Stumfold’s own curate! Think again of what you are saying, Miss Mackenzie!” And there was in Mrs Stumfold’s voice as she spoke an expression of offended majesty, and in her countenance a look of awful authority, sufficient no doubt to bring most Stumfoldian ladies to their bearings.
The hugging and kissing to which Katie was subjected when she was carried up to the inn, near the boat-slip on the Surrey side of the river, may be imagined; as may also the faces she made at the wineglassful of stiff brandy and water which she was desired to drink. She was carried home in a fly, and by the time she arrived there, had so completely recovered her life and spirits as to put a vehement negative on her mother’s proposition that she should at once go to bed.
Mr Stumfold and Mr Frigidy were at the other table, and Mr Maguire was occupied in passing promiscuously from one to the other.
“To tell you the truth, I think you should change your trade. This is the third attempt, you know. I dare say they are very good in their way; but if the world liked them, the world would have found it out by this time. ‘Vox populi, vox Dei’—that is my motto—I don’t trust my own judgment; I trust that of the public. If you will take my advice, you will give up Iphigenia and the rest of them. You see you are doing nothing whatever at the bar,” &c., &c.
“I think it’ll be right to say one thing first,” said Kenneby, with a solemn and deliberate tone.
Then as she sat there she began to reflect that it might be that she herself was not of the elect.
All this Charley’s heart and instinct fully understood, and he was not ungrateful.
And yet it is plain to every one who has given any attention to the uses of words, that the word incorruption denotes by the privative particle that neither corruption nor birth appertains to God: just as many other words of like formation denote the absence of what is not inherent rather than the presence of what is; e.g.
Her daughters were around her.
Do you see how he has cleared it of all blame?
Why then said He, 'As I said to the Jews'?
But it will be said, The gods that are in them take no care of their images.
How she would be his wife with all her heart and spirit!
But, through it all, she appreciated Grace; and they who knew her well and heard what she said upon the occasion, understood that her favour was not to be withdrawn.
He had put his arm round her waist and kissed her lips and pressed her to his old bosom.
What wonder is it, beloved brethren, if such is the prayer which God taught, seeing that He condensed in His teaching all our prayer in one saving sentence?
[Colossians 1:21, 22]
If then we pray with humility, smiting our breast as the publican, if we utter what he did, if we say, Be merciful to me a sinner [Luke 18:13], we shall obtain all. For though we be not publicans, yet have we other sins not less than his.
“To have a lot of money to look after is more plague than profit, my dear,” she said to Dorothy one day; “particularly when you don’t quite know what you ought to do with it.” Dorothy had always avoided any conversation with her aunt about money since the first moment in which she had thought of accepting Brooke Burgess as her husband.
I have dependents.
And if you be willing, and hear my voice, you shall eat the good of the land.
I know not with what heart a theory like this can be maintained, if the friend of the Count, who had in the Count a god for his companion, is said to have been in unity, and the friend of the Bridegroom to have been excluded from it.
But after that the soul became bound, not with material fetters but with sins, and thus was rendered impotent to act, then it left its body in the ground, and being cast down to the lower regions, it was made the footstool of death, and despicable to all.
He who thus flames a body out of what is vile, cannot He raise the fallen body again?
See, then, whether we ought to yield to one who, holding such opinions, calumniates the Christians, and thus abandon a doctrine which explains the difference existing among bodies as due to the different qualities, internal and external, which are implanted in them.
The believers therefore, and the obedient, He charges to have peace among themselves.
Or was Your fury against the rivers?
The Duke did not approve of Mr. Bonteen.
Be the gifts as distinct as they may, yet the Giver is one, for it was fitting that our Maker should be our Redeemer.
The careful reader may say that my words are an invective rather than an eulogy.
Words have lost their old significance, and to deserve only is not meritorious.
Moreover Christ is described in the Gospel as having appeared in white, and Moses and Elias manifested themselves to the apostles in robes of white.
There was a tacit understanding among them that everything should be done to make the journey pleasant to the young mother who was in search of her son; and, in addition to this, Lady Rowley had her own little understanding, which was very tacit indeed, that in Mr. Glascock might be found an escape from one of their great family difficulties.
The Creator?
“He is my equal in all things,” said Lady Anna, “and he shall be my lord and husband.”
He desired indeed to teach him even by the first words, but when he continued in his vehemence, He did not indeed throw or force him into the denial, but left him alone, that he might learn his own weakness.
“You see he’s such a fellow that you don’t know where to have him,” continued Honyman. “It’s not only that he don’t mind ruining you, but he don’t mind ruining himself either.”
A junior clerk in the secretary’s office was always told off to sleep upon the premises, and he was supposed to be the presiding genius of the establishment when the other members of the Secretary’s department had left the building.
The result of her communication to her father and her relatives in the Windberg-gasse had been by no means so terrible as she had anticipated.
“There could only be one decision,—unless you were man enough to earn your bread.”
For if you are assured that the gods exist whom you suppose, and that they live in the highest regions of heaven, what cause, what reason, is there that those images should be fashioned by you, when you have true beings to whom you may pour forth prayers, and from whom you may, ask help in trying circumstances?
“The lunch is on the table, sir,” said the Groby Park footman in the Groby Park livery.
And I fear that it will anger him, for he loves to have his own way,—especially in doing good; and he thinks that our marriage would rescue me altogether from the danger of this trial.
Then said Peter, What then?
In pointing then to the incurable and unchangeable character of their spirit, he calls it a spirit of slumber.
“Don’t wait for me, aunt; I’m not going,” said Arabella boldly.
Some have thought that this is said of women generally, but it is not so, for why should he introduce anything about women to interfere with his subject? He is speaking of those who hold the rank of Deaconesses.
Everywhere make yourself safe, and your friends also; you have conquered.
Next, he declares also the mode in which God took them, adding another testimony:
“A morsel of jelly, or a little soup. But, Anton, I must tell you — I tell you everything, you know — where do you think the things that he takes have come from? But perhaps you know.”
And Simon said: I should like to know, Peter, if you really believe that the shape of man has been moulded after the shape of God.
Matt. IX. 27-30.
Omnibuses which run over two miles charge some fraction over sixpence for each journey.
There was still ample time for arrangement before the bill would come due, and he would not tell Fanny till he had made up his mind what that arrangement would be.
Gertrude was a stout, healthy girl; and, having £120,000, was entitled to such a husband as himself.
At the first the man was a German; a singularly handsome and dirty individual, who never shaved or washed himself, and lived there, ever alone, on bananas and musk-melons.
Sir Edward showed that the Coolies themselves—for the Anti-Slavery Society is as anxious to prevent this immigration on behalf of the Coolies, who in their own country can hardly earn twopence a day, as it is on the part of the negroes, who could with ease, though they won’t, earn two shillings a day—he showed that these Coolies, after having lived for a few years on plenty in these colonies, return to their own country with that which is for them great wealth.
“Is yours stern, my lord?”
Be angry, and sin not, says David, teaching us that we ought not to assent to the impression, and not to follow it up by action, and so confirm wrath.
Liberius .— I have already taken leave of the brethren who are in that city. The decrees of the Church are of greater importance than a residence in Rome.
Calenus and Piso had given the Senate to understand that Antony was desirous of peace.
But we, little fishes, after the example of our [ΙΧΘΥΣ] Jesus Christ, are born in water, nor have we safety in any other way than by permanently abiding in water; so that most monstrous creature, who had no right to teach even sound doctrine, knew full well how to kill the little fishes, by taking them away from the water!
But those who are over others should show themselves to be such that their subjects may not blush to disclose even their secrets to them; that the little ones, vexed with the waves of temptation, may have recourse to their pastor's heart as to a mother's breast, and wash away the defilement they foresee to themselves from the filth of the sin that buffets them in the solace of his exhortation and in the tears of prayer.
The love which he had seen in her eyes and had heard from her lips had been so sweet to him, that their savour had overcome whatever strength her words possessed.
For John was of noble birth and known to the high priest, yet was so little appalled by the plottings of the Jews that he introduced Peter into his court, and was the only one of the apostles bold enough to take his stand before the cross.
He had been a prophet from the womb, and needed not the commandment, Hear Him.
And besides what I have said, his credit also among the many, and his fall from glory so bright, would cause no ordinary perplexity. For the purple did by no means so much adorn him, as the stain of his sin disgraced him. And ye know of course what a great thing it is for evil deeds to be exposed, and how great a soul is required in such an one, not to despond after the censure of the multitude, and when he has so many witnesses of his own offenses.
Fishermen and tentmakers they were; but they had in a moment mounted even to the height of heaven, and had become more honorable than all earthly kings, being deemed worthy to become the companions of the Lord of the world, and to follow Him whom all beheld with awe.
Another Mrs Bellfield was not impossible; and what, if instead of being a real captain at all, he should be a returned ticket-of-leave man!
He then comes to Samuel, another Nazarite of the Lord, who from infancy was brought up in the tabernacle and was clad in a linen ephod, or, as the words are rendered, in linen vestments: he, too, we are told, begot sons without a stain upon his priestly purity.
“I should like to be a mermaid and catch it,” said Lord George.
Even if you marry the daughter, that won’t give you the mother’s money.
“I cannot say that it will be broken off.”
I confess, then, that being raised by these so great and excellent benefits to a kind of mental ecstasy, I had ceased to fear that I might be the survivor, because I thought him more worthy to live, and therefore received the blow which I am unable to endure, for the wounds of such pain are more easily borne when dwelt upon beforehand than when unexpected.
The vast expanse of heaven, like an azure veil, is interposed between those without, and those who inhabit his royal mansions: while round this expanse the sun and moon, with the rest of the heavenly luminaries (like torch-bearers around the entrance of the imperial palace), perform, in honor of their sovereign, their appointed courses; holding forth, at the word of his command, an ever-burning light to those whose lot is cast in the darker regions without the pale of heaven.
Even the gouty old lord shuffled up out of his chair, and tried, with a grin, to look sweet and pleasant.
Eran.— These things are thus written, but I do not think that you will be able to show that the body, after the ascension into heaven, is called body by the inspired writers.
It was not such a room as one would wish to see inhabited by a beneficed clergyman of the Church of England; but they who know what money will do and what it will not, will understand how easily a man with a family, and with a hundred and thirty pounds a year, may be brought to the need of inhabiting such a chamber.
Now if, looking to the magnitude of his own iniquities, he had despaired of restoration and repentance, he would have missed all which he afterwards obtained: but as it was, looking to the boundlessness of God's tender mercy instead of the enormity of his transgressions, and having broken in sunder the bonds of the devil, he rose up and contended with him, and finished the good course.
“Oh, papa, that’s done and past. Pray let that be among the bygones.”
But with Lucinda Roanoke the accustomed change did not seem to take place.
For since the god is said to have been summoned for this purpose, that he might drive away utterly all the causes by which pestilence was excited, it followed that the state should be safe, and should be always maintained free from pestilential blasts, and unharmed.
There was not much about Mary in this; but still, the little that was said made him again declare that neither father nor mother should move him from his resolution. “I will write to her and say that she may send her present when she pleases. Or I will run down to Malvern for a day. It will do me good to see her.” And so resolved, he rode away to Mill Hill, thinking, as he went, how he would put the matter to Harry Baker.
There seems to be a keener relish of life than among our steadier and more fastidious folk at home, with much less to give the relish.
But why might it be, that then His disciples said, Send away the multitude, but now they said not so; and this, though three days had past? Either being themselves improved by this time, or seeing that the people had no great sense of hunger; for they were glorifying God for the things that were done.
Wherefore all parents who do not beget children with this intention, this will, this purpose, of transferring them from being members of the first man into being members of Christ, but boast as unbelieving parents over unbelieving children—however circumspect they be in their cohabitation, studiously limiting it to the begetting of children—really have no conjugal chastity in themselves.
For on whose account should we do these things?
When he had, in a very few words, declared that the anger he felt towards me was owing to many injuries done him, I for my part answered him thus: Lies possess an immense power among mankind to deceive: but in the Divine Judgment there will be no place for the misunderstandings thus arising.
This is seen more in the physiognomy than in the colour, and is specially to be noticed in the hair.
“There is no offence;—there can be no offence. I am a tailor, and am in no sort ashamed of my trade. But I did not think, sir, that you believed in lords so absolutely as that.”
“You are fit;—none could be fitter; none others so fit. You are as well born as he, and you have the wealth which he wants. You must have it, if, as you tell me, he says that he will cease to claim it as his own. There can be no question of fitness.”
“She’d never have sent for me again,” said the lady, “if it wasn’t all right.”
At that moment he was more in love than ever.
Three or four of the morning papers were of opinion that though Sir Orlando had been a strong man, and a good public servant, the Ministry might exist without him.
“As you are living at present, you are alone in the world!”
The old ferryman took the horse, and went out under the boy’s guidance in quest of the shepherds.
The difficulties which met us on the part of those who were cast out of the temple by Jesus meet us here in a still greater degree.
That was the idea that first took possession of her brain.
Hence it is that there is no restoration of peace granted by the Churches to idolatry or to blood.
now this insignificant breath of Greek laudation raises you to heaven.
[Isaiah 53:2] But He says, that waters have come in even unto His soul; because those multitudes, which under the name of waters He has pointed out, were able so far to prevail as to kill Christ Whence then does He so cry out, as though He were suffering something against His will, except because the Head does prefigure the Members?
We received the former at our birth we attain to the latter by striving, that immortality might not exist to man without any difficulty.
And then will my children be most dear to me, while you are affectionately disposed towards me.
Again, he might call Christ greedy of the blood, not of beasts, but of men, because he said, "He that loses his life for my sake, shall keep it unto life eternal;" [Matthew 10:39] as Faustus reproaches God in reference to those animal sacrifices which prefigured the sacrifice of blood-shedding by which we are redeemed.
“Why should she be wretched?”
And I said, O Lord God, You know.
By degrees, however, her heart became anxious for another object, and, before its birth, the stranger was expected with all the eagerness of a longing mother. Just eight months after the father’s death a second John Bold was born, and if the worship of one creature can be innocent in another, let us hope that the adoration offered over the cradle of the fatherless infant may not be imputed as a sin.
To Cælius it was play—play in which a man might be beaten, or banished, or slaughtered; but it was a game in which men were fighting each for himself.
Whence it is manifest that even now there are many who show forth the life; like as the three thousand then, and the five thousand.
“But Honyman thinks you’d better settle with him,” pleaded Mrs. T. “Then I’ll go to another lawyer,” said Tappitt.
No one ever attempted to gouge me in Kentucky or drew a revolver on me in California.
“Well, it’s getting late,” said Colligan, “and I don’t think I’ll be coming back tonight.”
What, then, is the righteousness by which the devil was conquered?
She turned it all over in her mind, as she sat there watching him in his sleep.
But, as it is written, Eye has not seen nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God has prepared for them that love Him.
This frowardness also appertains to men—to discard what is wholesome, to accept what is baleful, to avoid all dangerous cures, or, in short, to be eager to die rather than to be healed.
“She is an object of pity,” he said.
But they who dwelt in that earthly Jerusalem, have been moved; first in heart, afterwards by exile.
To Diana, whom they call Proserpine, they hand over the air below.
And therefore it is not to be imagined that there is a kind of blasphemy, as it were, in the words, There is none good save one only, God the Father, as if thereby it may be supposed to be denied that either Christ or the Holy Spirit was good.
Consus, as we have mentioned, lies hidden under ground at the Murcian Goals.
[Genesis 28:12] Who are they that ascend?
It is of a natural endowment that you observe it, since if you were chaste from fear of punishment, and did violence to nature in submitting to so severe a rule, much more ought thou to do alms.
“All went merry as a marriage bell,” at any rate as far as Patience was concerned.
But she never spoke to her child with little tender endearing words, never embraced her,—but was to her a careful nurse rather than a loving mother.
[Acts 15:22] And observe, the more to authenticate the decree, they send men of their own, that there may be no room for regarding Paul and his company with suspicion.
“And perhaps not always that,” said John Eames.
It says also by Esaias, Here am I, and the children that God has given me.
I have done something in the world.
Basil: I acknowledge indeed that the matter is one of deep concern to me, and that I endeavor most earnestly to keep this commandment, but that I have not even half succeeded in so doing, even you yourself would bear me witness if you would leave off talking out of partiality, and simply respect the truth.
They sever the Son of man from the Son of God: you do the same.
Celsus next assails the doctrine of the resurrection, which is a high and difficult doctrine, and one which more than others requires a high and advanced degree of wisdom to set forth how worthy it is of God; and how sublime a truth it is which teaches us that there is a seminal principle lodged in that which Scripture speaks of as the tabernacle of the soul, in which the righteous do groan, being burdened, not for that they would be unclothed, but clothed upon.
“Don’t mention such nonsense, Winifred,” said her husband, “trying to frighten the boy. There isn’t a human being between this and Ballyglunin for whom I won’t be responsible. Till you come to a mile of the station it’s all my own property.”
Mr. M’Ruen always did keep Charley waiting fifteen minutes, and so he was no whit surprised; the doing so was a part of the tremendous interest which the wretched old usurer received for his driblets of money.
How is it that though he nowhere else writes to the Clergy, not in Rome, nor in Corinth, nor in Ephesus, nor anywhere, but in general, to all the saints, the believers, the beloved, yet here he writes to the Clergy? Because it was they that sent, and bare fruit, and it was they that dispatched Epaphroditus to him.
“You can say that I’ve got a headache,” said Trevelyan. So Mr. Glascock returned to his friends, and did say that Mr. Trevelyan had a headache. It was the first time that a name had been mentioned between them.
“God forbid that there should be any permanent separation. If he be obstinate, it may be well that you should be away from him for a week or two. Why can’t a man wash his dirty linen at home, if he has any to wash. His, at any rate, did not come to him with you.”
“Does Dorothy know anything of this?” asked Stanbury.
For do not look to those who are begirt with the golden girdles, nor those who are borne on horses, nor those who shine in kings' palaces on account of their fathers, nor those who have footmen and tutors.
“But he’s idle. Isn’t he idle?”
And in like manner, the husband has not power over his own body, but the wife.
Here upon the earth in this life He shall smite many heads.
You can do the same, and I shall not say a word to you.” Then she withdrew her arm from him, and, leaving him, walked across the room and joined her mother.
Why, they are absolutely the same marriages as God made at the very first.
Mr. Greenwood knew well that this was only the beginning of his troubles.
And in my discourse I shall use a certain order and consecution, such as those who are very expert in these matters employ towards those who desire to investigate any subject intelligently.
The story of his murder by those who had the young King of Egypt in their keeping is well known and need not detain us.
Let all bitterness, and anger, and wrath, and clamour, and blasphemy, be put away from you.
On this occasion, Proclus the bishop preached a sermon in the church in which he applied a prophecy out of Ezekiel to the deliverance effected by God in the late emergency, and was in consequence much admired.
John 11:16
George said nothing further that night to his uncle about Caroline, but he sat longing that the old man might again broach the subject.
With care o'erpowered it succumbs to death.
Ah yes;—it was indeed too late.
Nevertheless after such great calamities of this kind he was not petulant, but what does he say— The Lord gave, the Lord has taken away; as it seemed good unto the Lord even so has it come to pass, blessed be the name of the Lord for ever.
“He’s a friend of mine,” said the Colonel. “You must let him come with me.”
That hero must have wings tinged with azure, whereas Hamel had a not much more ætherealised than ordinary coat and waistcoat.
But Sir William knew it, and those who remained close to him got over that trouble.
For more blessed, says Christ, are they who have not seen, and yet have believed; [John 20:29] since, even if the resurrection of the flesh must be denied to them, it must at any rate be a fitting boon to us, who are the more blessed.
Richard had been told, both by Herbert and by Aunt Letty, that he had better remain and live on a small patch of land that should be provided for him.
Do we not see the physicians acting thus: how, when it may be done, they humor the whims of their patients, but when the gratification does harm, then they will not spare?
Furthermore, the Egyptians whom I have now mentioned are divided in their objects of worship.
Well indeed was this admirably wise and accomplished man acquainted with the cruel character of the times. He proceeds:
It was now some years since he had declared that though Mr. Carroll,—or Captain Carroll, as he had then been called,—was an improvident, worthless, drunken Irishman, he would never see his sister want.
But the numbers are by no means equal, showing instead a vast preponderance in favor of the States.
Wherefore we are also the same body.
You mustn’t stay long, because Miss Gauntlet and I am going out.
Dear Duke of Omnium,
What then is the charge they bring against us?
Therefore, says the holy Methodius, by this earthly house must metaphorically be understood our short-lived existence here, and not this tabernacle; for if you decide to consider the body as being the earthly house which is dissolved, tell us what is the tabernacle whose house is dissolved?
Or do you think otherwise?
For man to discover the divine nature, and to make it, surpasses the wonder of all other wonderful things.
Early in July, Frank was to come home.
He himself was dying at the moment, as he thought.
Nevertheless, on the day but one after this, Camilla French did go to Gloucester.
Their first edict had been, Whoever shall confess himself a Christian, let him be smitten.
Revelation is his word; implying that although He be not seen, yet He is, and is present even now, and then shall appear.
In doing all this he by no means acted in perfect concert with Lord George, nor did he often stay or even dine at the house in Munster Court.
His yellow trousers and the manners which accompanied them were not generally acceptable in merchants’ offices and suchlike places.
“The quarrel is made up,” said Cradell.
Well has inspired David discoursed of our frailty, and again in these words, Let me know the shortness of my days; and he defines the days of man as of a span long.
This he may occupy or not as he pleases; but when he is not there it is expected that his place shall be filled by the Government Secretary.
And then the slaves had been manumitted.
“That is so good of you! I told her that I was sure you were goodnatured, because you answered so civilly. It was a kind of experiment of hers, you know.”
She said that she would, but the tone in which she said it, hardly gave confirmation to her promise.
But such a view is both foolish and impious, since the other Scriptures testify against this interpretation and declare that, when we are somewhat more advanced, we shall be equal to the angels.
And she brought forth, he says, a man-child, who is to rule all the nations; by which is meant that the Church, always bringing forth Christ, the perfect man-child of God, who is declared to be God and man, becomes the instructor of all the nations.
To guard against this, he has not only charged them not to strive about words, but to render his discourse more alarming, he adds, to the subverting of the hearers.
Madeline Neroni, when she was left alone, could not help pondering much on the singular interview she had had with this singular man.
He, as being the governor of the temple, learns the ten books called Hieratic; and they contain all about the laws, and the gods, and the whole of the training of the priests.
She was not, she thought, fit to be the wife of a very poor man; but she conceived of herself that she would do very well as a future Lady Peterborough in the drawing-rooms of Monkhams.
When he told her that Annesley had been the last in London to see his brother Mountjoy, and had described the nature of the scene that had occurred between them, he had no doubt forgotten that he himself had subsequently seen his brother.
He had been a poor sickly creature, always ailing, gifted with an affectionate nature, and a great respect for the blood of the Mackenzies, but not gifted with much else that was intrinsically his own.
John 11:15
What are the waters?
She did not even begrudge Mr. Benjamin the diamonds,—or Lord George, if in truth Lord George had been the last thief.
[1 John 2:19] But what shall become of the little ones?
This was the only disturbance which took place, and it passed off altogether to the credit of the Frau.
It had seemed to him that there was no possible reason why he should not fall in love as well as another.
It is indeed a happy circumstance, that most of their doctrines, including even the harshest, accord to our God the entire formation of man.
“Of course she is,” said Plantagenet, lifting up his hand to his hair.
Quod autem ex consensu ad tempus orationi vacat conjugium, doctrina est continentiæ.
Or why may we not hope that, as some of the laity are likely to survive, some of the clergy may also be spared, by whom the necessary ordinances may be dispensed to them?
But the mouth that lies slays the soul.
Therefore reflection itself, advancing by regular order, and weighing everything, leads us to that excellent and surpassing good, on account of which we are born.
“Coming here, is he?” said Sir Magnus. “Then he will just have to go back again as wise as he came.”
“Crushed him!”
Why do you busy yourselves with words, while you keep aloof from deeds, puffed up with praise, but cast down by misfortunes?
He has removed the greater part of your burden.
Are we to measure our wisdom by the Persian Schœne, or by the cubits of a child, and to write so imperfectly as not to write at all but to copy the midday shadows, or lines which meet right in front of you, whose lengths are foreshortened and which show themselves in glimpses rather than plainly, being recognized only by certain of their extremities?
‘Does that mean to say that you are not to be here for my marriage?’ This she said with her sweetest smile, making all the effort in her power to give a gracious tone to her voice. It was better, she knew, to plunge at the subject at once.
The common term, again, for all the intellectual world, is with the Apostle that which is not seen [Colossians 1:16]: by withdrawing all idea of comprehension by the senses he leads the mind on to the immaterial and intellectual.
What shall we have therefore?
The pressure against the stream was so great, owing partly to the weight of the raft and partly to the fact that its flat head buried itself in the water, that it was almost immovable against the stream, although the mortar was not yet on it.
When does he slumber?
While she was yet speaking, he brought her back into the room, supporting her with his arm round her waist; and when the door was closed he stood over her still holding her up, and looking down into her face, which was turned up to his. “Why do you not speak to me, Anton?” she said. But she smiled as she spoke, and there was nothing of fear in the tone of her voice, for his look was kind, and there was love in his eyes.
The gentleman who paid him forty-five shillings a week,— the manager, in short, of the “ Penny Dreadful,”—might tell us something of him.
And by the expression, till it, no other kind of labour is implied than the observance of God's command, lest, disobeying, he should destroy himself, as indeed he did destroy himself, by sin.
“I don’t know where it is she’s lame,” said that very clever man, Captain Boodle, who had lately reappeared among his military friends at his club, “but she don’t go flat all round.”
Let us then be very thoughtful both for our wives, and children, and servants; knowing that we shall thus be establishing for ourselves an easy government, and shall have our accounts with them gentle and lenient, and say, Behold I, and the children which God has given me.
Therefore in the eyes of the Lord each thousand of years is ordained, for I find that the Lord's eyes are seven.
But when we suffer anything of tribulation, of trials, of offenses on this earth (as we suffer only from the inferior part of ourselves; i.e.
And 'going through the midst of them, He went His way,' and 'so passed by [Luke 4:30].'
This thing only I consider, that I may in truth advance.
Under the present household arrangement of Groby Park all the servants lived on board wages.
Therefore He suffered even the chief apostle to fall, both rendering him more humbled in mind, and training him thenceforth to greater love.
He had been born of a virgin, from cradle and childhood He had grown to man's estate, through sleep and hunger and thirst and weariness and tears He had lived man's life: even now He was to be spitted on, scourged, crucified.
For he that comes unto Him must not deck himself out with such garments, but be clothed with virtue.
But it can hardly be called fashionable, as is Piccadilly; or central, as is Charing Cross; or commercial, as is the neighbourhood of St. Paul’s.
[Gregorion] . I certainly do.
And they do not say, Angels have told us; but, We have seen.
And in her heart of hearts she believed that the waltzing had been stopped because she had waltzed with Jack De Baron.
For every soil shall every product bear.
He had come to the war with 120,000 armed men and with 32 elephants, which glittered and gleamed with the sheen of arms like a line of burning lamps, as the sun rose upon them, marching along one by one, like very mountains for size.
For the next day’s dinner the clergyman of the parish, with his wife and daughter, were secured.
For this is what he everywhere especially seeks; the chiefest of good things.
I can fancy you stretching your poor neck over the dyke, longing to fly away that you might cease to be at rest, but knowing that the matrimonial dragon was too strong for any such flight.
I don’t see why all enterprises should not be open to them.
“That’s just what I’m coming to. What’d your lordship advise me to do?”
“I have,—and I do love you, though you won’t believe it. But I am sure I oughtn’t to remain to make you unhappy. I shall never forget all that you have done for me; and though you call me ungrateful, I am not. But I know that I ought not to stay, as I cannot do what you wish. So, if you please, I will go back to Nuncombe.”
At last, a little after seven, she allowed dinner to go in, and following it herself, she sat down and made as good a meal as she could, and endeavoured to answer Thady’s questions about the races and the ball with some appearance of having taken interest, at any rate in the latter.
Or he means this; after God say ye and do everything, do not introduce the Angels besides.
For in this you do not attribute to the Lord Jesus Christ the glory of Deity, but you deny it.
If Jemima thought it right I’m sure she wouldn’t complain.
“I did consult him, sir,” said George, turning red in accordance with that inveterate and stupid habit of his.
But liberal politics had gone on and had left Dr. Harford high and dry on the standing-ground which he had chosen for himself in the early days of his manhood.
But that would not have settled the question, as England could not have ceded what she did not possess.
III. Fights are necessary to prove our Faith
Doomed himself to such a fatal necessity, the part of himself which he has given over to condemnation might pardon him, if he were as humble as he is miserable.
According to the form of God, He and the Father are one; according to the form of a servant, He came not to do His own will, but the will of Him that sent Him.
This abstinence will by no means be able to benefit us as much as the participation in spiritual instruction conveys to us benefit and advantage.
What’s the use of my loving you, and thinking that you are everything, only that you are to love me?
The true [Thesaurus to wit, the Disputation conducted in Carchar, a city of Mesopotamia, before Manippus and Aegialeus and Claudius and Cleobolus, who acted as judges.
Sir Francis Travels With Miss Altifiorla
1 Corinthians 15:10
[Matthew 24:40-41; Luke 17:34-35] What will be the state of their souls, when they see some indeed taken up, but themselves left behind?
There we shall see, and our heart shall rejoice.
But why were so many allowed to occupy sacred tenements without interference, unless because supplication had long been addressed in vain to such a crowd of gods, and so by degrees the sacred places were deserted of worshippers, and being thus vacant, could without offense be put at least to some human uses?
Who were they then, who prophetically named this spot Golgotha, in which Christ the true Head endured the Cross?
Mr. Scott intended, when the present session was over, to retire from the labours of parliamentary life.
He owned houses in London from which he still got some income.
Shall I not visit for these things?
[Mark 10:11] And he said unto them, Every one who puts away his wife, and [39] marries another, has exposed her to adultery.
And here, in England, history, that nursing mother of fiction, has given hunting men honours which they here never fairly earned.
During the translation a blind man was healed.
How is it that there is no unrighteousness in Him?
And when he wrote his Epistle to them, it was as signifying this that he said, For you became imitators of the Churches of God which are in Judæa, for you also suffered the same things of your own countrymen, even as they did of the Jews.
“It would be better to leave them near her on the table.”
If he had come before Mr Crosbie it would have all been well with her.
Such were always his thoughts as he sat idle, silent, moody, over the fire; and his wife well knew their currents.
Et adhuc similiter:—
By a falsehood Joseph in love to his brethren deceived them; and that too while swearing 'by the life of Pharaoh [Genesis 42:15 but his brethren had really lied to him, in their envy plotting his death and then his enslavement.
We must take care, however, to understand, that the anger of God is free from any turbulent emotion; for His anger is an expression for His just method of taking vengeance: as the law might be said to be angry when its ministers are moved to punish by its sanction.
They had brought with them a piano and a few books, mostly French;—and with these it seemed to have been intended that the two ladies should make their future lives endurable.
That the strength of Christ may rest upon me. Here he hints at another thing also, namely, that in proportion as the trials waxed in intensity, in the same proportion the grace was increased and continued.
[1 Corinthians 15:10] It is no contradiction that they who are mountains be also valleys: for as they are called mountains because of their spiritual greatness, so also valleys because of the humility of their spirit.
[Luke 22:44] What is this flowing of sweat from His whole Body, but the suffering of martyrs from the whole Church?
And then it was decided that Jane should go home with him—for there was a brother squire who, it was thought, might have an eye to Jane;—and Lucy, the younger, should be taken to Framley parsonage.
And all this was found in Christ who, by virtue of the mystery of the manhood and Divinity joined together in Him who ever was, could say that He already was.
And not even that did they reap as they deserved.
I do not mean to say that he omitted to notice misconduct among his clergy, immorality in his parish, or omissions in his family, but he was not anxious to do so where the necessity could be avoided.
If you acknowledge the authority of the mistress, you will own it also in the disciple.
“Then, when the deuce will you pay me what you owe me?” Sir Felix was driven to this plain expression of his demand by the impassibility of his debtor.
For when you strive individually to excel each other in reputation for more recondite knowledge, you both overthrow the very gods in whom you believe, and replace them by others who have clearly no existence; and different men give different opinions on the same subjects, and you write that those whom general consent has ever received as single persons are infinite in number.
[Philippians 3:13] The Lord Himself says: "No man that puts his hand to the plough, and looks back, is fit for the kingdom of Heaven."
But taking the numerous chemists’ shops which we see from street to street, we believe that modest comfort is more often attained than great wealth.
But then in faith we have both seen and known.
Everything that the late lord had possessed was left, in one line, to his best-beloved friend, the Signorina Camilla Spondi; and it was stated, and very fully explained, that Camilla Spondi was the Italian lady living at the Grange at the date on which the will was made.
In the Epistle of Paul to the Romans: The sufferings of this present time are not worthy of comparison with the glory that is to come after, which shall be revealed in us.
That men in high places should be dishonest, and that the people should be cheated by their rulers, is very bad.
For from Sion shall proceed the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem; and He shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke much people; and they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning-hooks, and they shall no more learn to fight.
Everything had now gone as the Duke wished; and he was prepared to celebrate some little ovation with his young friend before he left the house in Park Lane.
Treatise XII (Book 3)
But, if you like, let us discuss this point, and I shall show that God foreknows.
And these I think are to be found in the intentional motions of the soul, whereby it separates itself from its old customary life, and enters on a newer way of conversation, and will clearly teach those acquainted with it that it has become something different from its former self, bearing in it no token by which the old self was recognized.
Be, He says, wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.
Let us call to mind how the Magi of the East worshipped and paid tribute to the Lord; let us estimate the weariness of that long pilgrimage to Bethlehem of Judah.
The Epistle of Ignatius to the Magnesians
It was a new light to me.
Could he have kept from spirits, this man would have made a large fortune and would have deserved it; for he was indefatigable and never-ending in resources.’ Such was the history of poor Mick Maggott.
And straightway he added, Yet count him not as an enemy, but reprove him as a brother [2 Thessalonians 3:15].
But the Lord grant that the Truth and a sound faith in our Lord Jesus Christ may prevail among all, and especially among those to whom you read this.
But if we hold to the succession according to the flesh, we shall be compelled to say that the oracle was false.
There was an order to that effect, and other orders came.
But in order that the wall may not fall, the Lord will support: for He that gives power to the tempter, does Himself to the tempted extend mercy.
That had been early in May, and Ralph Newton had called, and, though there had been difficulties, he had received the money before three days had passed.
This is the God who is Lord of all.
He would be too much moved to think of his timber, and too angry to desire to remain a minute longer than he could help in company with his son.
The not sorrowing would be a sign of love.
“Mary, I have done it all for the best,” said Mrs. Thomas, driven to defend herself by the obdurate silence of her pupil.
He had his high mission to complete, his great duties to perform, and doubtless would find some noble lady as a fit mother for his children.
She was not sure as to the law, and asked herself whether it would be possible for her to consult an attorney.
98per month, or forty-eight per cent.
Cricket requires appendages which are troublesome and costly, and by which the minds of economical fathers are astounded.
“Certainly I think that I could. He has exerted himself this morning, whereas I have advised him not to exert himself. He could have given himself the same counsel, and would certainly live longer by obeying it than the reverse. As there is no difficulty in the matter, there need be no conceit on my part in saying that so far my advice might be of service to him.”
I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.
And in another passage: Behold, the days come, says the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Jacob, and with the house of Judah; not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I arrested their dispensation, in order to bring them out of the land of Egypt.
And when she has learned these things, she so conducts herself, in all respects, that her service, her cheerfulness, her diligence, and her whole mode of life, may be in harmony with the character of her betrothed.
Chapter 6.— Presumption and Arrogance to Be Avoided.
But by adding yet now we know Him so no longer, he manifests His power when weakness is laid aside.
But you believe whatever you please; and for the rest, you appeal to nature.
And again Saul persecuted David, and he fell by the sword of the Philistines.
In this way, therefore, as we have said, they teach that Chronos, who is Saturn, is allegorically time; Rhea is matter; Aides— that is, Orcus— is the depth of the infernal regions; Neptune is water; Jupiter is air— that is, the element of heat; Venus is the loveliness of things; Cupid is desire, which is in all things, and by which posterity is propagated, or even the reason of things, which gives delight when wisely looked into.
Now, has what was said become clear to you, or must one make it still clearer?
Again when Leontius bishop of Ancyra in Galatia Minor, who had taken away a church from the Novatians, was on a visit to Constantinople, Sisinnius went to him, and begged him to restore the church.
Chapter 3. Testimonies to a future judgment
No one examines these matters, no one busies himself about them.
Why do you not rather on this, the side of constancy and trust in God, say, I do my part; I depart not; God, if He choose, will Himself be my protector?
“You thought there was no obstacle but what you might become man and wife legally?”
[Job 1:11] At other times it allows something strange to be done in order that something great and marvellous might be accomplished through the seemingly-strange act, as when the salvation of men was brought about through the Cross.
For how does flesh return, a spirit walking and not turning back, while a weight of evil deserts does weigh it down unto the lowest and far places of evil, save through the election of grace?...For thus also is solved this no unimportant question, how it is written in the Proverbs, when the Scripture was speaking of the way of iniquity, all they that walk in her shall not return.
No dangling strings gave them an appearance of senile imbecility.
Chapter II. The Existence of the Devil Affirmed
“Of course she’s innocent,” said Snengkeld; “from the very moment the words was spoken by the foreman. If any newspaper was to say she wasn’t she’d have her action.”
And in like manner Gabriel says: To blot out transgressions, and make reconciliation for sins.
Nourish yourselves up in the words of faith. Exercise yourselves unto godliness: for bodily exercise profits little; but godliness is profitable for all things, having the promise of the life which now is, and that which is to come. [1 Timothy 4:6-8]
No doubt that he should suffer for the name of the Lord, not that he should be bought off.
Now the former, indeed, whom we have described as being of better morals, if a true faith be his, surpasses the second one, although both will be in heaven; yet if the faith be wanting to him, he is so surpassed by him that he himself is not there at all.
He was obliged to say that he would, but it did seem to him that Scarrowby was a sort of penal servitude to which he was about to be sent with his own concurrence.
Through how many heavens will it not pass?
Why, he’s thirty, and has been eating soup, they tell me, all through the journey.” These young men had brought a doctor with them, Dr MacNuffery, to prescribe to them what to eat and drink at each meal; and the unfortunate baronet whom Jack had nearly slaughtered, had encountered the ill-will of the entire club because he had called for mutton-broth when he was seasick.
For ye, he says, compelled me.
“What, old Sarcinet?”
“I wouldn’t have her if she owned every fox-cover in the county. No, by Jove! I know a trick worth two of that. It’s jolly enough to see them going, but as to being in love with them—in that sort of way—”
Neither did the apostle scruple to go on to say, For this cause God shall send upon them the working of error that they should believe a lie.
She had done nothing for her own pleasure.
Do you see that to suffer for one's enemies is a sweet-smelling savor, and an acceptable sacrifice? And if you shall die, then will you be indeed a sacrifice. This it is to imitate God.
“Excellent. I know no one whom I esteem more than Lady Cantrip.”
At the period of which I am speaking—January, 1862—the health of the army of the Potomac was not as good as it had been, and was beginning to give way under the effects of the winter.
All the world knows that it is but a very little distance from Hampton Church to Hampton Court Bridge, especially when one has the stream with one. They were very soon near to the bridge, and as they approached it, they had to pass a huge barge, that was lazily making its way down to Brentford.
After the refutation and rejection of such perverse opinions, we shall show, at the proper time and place, how those passages which they quote from the sacred Scriptures ought to be understood.
Some people thought him too old for me, but I never found him so. You know I was but a child when he married me, and love has been so mingled with esteem, and esteem so strengthened by respect, and respect so heightened by veneration, that—that—heigho!— Poor Brudo—poor, poor Brudo!
I will not do so.
She could sympathize neither with her relative’s faults or virtues.
“His Royal Highness is an old fool,” said Mary, laughing.
thing but composure to the inevitable, happily inevitable day, when Australia shall follow in the same path.
[Exodus 3:6] The voice came from the fire, and the voice was in the bush, and the fire did no harm.
She had lost the dearest husband that a woman had ever worshipped.
For our one Father, God, lives, and our mother, the Church; and neither are we dead who live to God, nor do we bury our dead, inasmuch as they too are living in Christ.
“Think of you, sir?” ejaculated Frank.
[Proverbs 8:22-23] Then that the Word was produced, through whom all things were made, and without whom nothing was made.
Love him!
With what grace must the soul be equipped, and the mind trained and taught to stand firm, so as never to be disturbed by any fears, to be broken by any troubles, or to yield to any torments!
But we have said already that it must be something that we cannot lose against our will.
For only thus they thought they would be enabled to constitute some one who held their own sentiments bishop of Alexandria.
Ralph the heir did indeed think that he would be accepted, and he went on to discuss the circumstances of their future home, almost as though Mary Bonner were already employed in getting together her wedding garments. His companion said nothing further, and Ralph the heir did not discover that anything was amiss.
So let us smite their heart.
Now, lest I seem to accuse him without reason, let me make a digression to tell who this Manes is, and in part what he teaches: for all time would fail to describe adequately the whole of his foul teaching.
The mother last, as round the nest she flew,
For after the Persians, Alexander of Macedon obtained the sovereign power on subverting Darius, as is also shown by the brass on the image.
But are there many, think you, among us who would find the question so unanswerable as yourself?
“I do not wish to be uncourteous,” said Trevelyan, “but if you have no assurance to give me, you had better—leave me.”
His steps lagged behind his will.
“They are very hard to manage,” said Mrs. Harold Smith to herself, thinking of her own sex.
He got it into his head that the girl had merely written to ask the permission of her former suitor to marry this new lordly lover, and, though he did love the girl, with a passion which the girl could never feel for the lord, he wrote back and refused the offer.
Mr. John Smith would be sure to have a larger balance at his banker’s than Charles Smith or Orlando Smith,—or perhaps than any other Smith whatever.
It is said that they have quarrelled.
This thing therefore this Asaph has understood.
Show forth therefore a life worthy of His grace; that even as it is everywhere preached, so this light may everywhere accompany the same.
“Hunting is not one of your amusements.”
“It won’t do, nohow, to unbar the door.”
Whenever Thady’s trial was spoken of;—and Mary, by continually recurring to the subject, had made the old man at last comprehend that his son was to be tried;—but whenever it was spoken of now, he merely expressed his approbation, and a wish that Thady might be punished, for making friends with such a reptile as Keegan—for deserting his father, and planning to cheat him out of his house and his property.
These men were all warmly clothed, but clothed apparently with an endeavor to contract as much mud as might be possible.
But since your mother has judged so faithfully concerning baptism, let her fast only one day before baptism.]
“Sir Lionel is undoubtedly a very pleasant man; no one, I fancy, could help liking his society.”
For God has raised up princes to rescind the impious and sanguinary edicts of the tyrants and provide for the welfare of mankind; so that now the cloud of past times is dispelled, and peace and serenity gladden all hearts.
23. But this did not seriously injure the church, for Theodotus restored their affairs, being straightway made bishop of that parish by God himself, the Saviour of all. He justified by his deeds both his lordly name and his office of bishop. For he excelled in the medical art for bodies, and in the healing art for souls. Nor did any other man equal him in kindness, sincerity, sympathy, and zeal in helping such as needed his aid. He was also greatly devoted to divine learning. Such an one was he.
“Her friend!” he said to himself.
Captain Clayton’s First Triumph
He grew thin, and still thinner.
Nay, they openly overthrow your gods, and in their writings they attack your superstitions; and you applaud them for it.
But even if you could not have thought of the explanation, that one was his own father, and the other adopted, you should not have been so ready to put yourself in opposition to such high authority.
The elements of the world are either without life, or have issued out of this stage into life, but Christ is life, born to be living God from the living God.
She should not have expressed the idea that her order for Mr. Slope’s expulsion could be treated otherwise than by immediate obedience.
Stoffle.SO here we are, neighbour Souch, guarding our own city like three warriors; subject to no one; our own lords and masters; the worthy guardians of the liberty of Flanders! Those were Captain Steinmark’s own words, and proud words they were for us to hear. ‘Twas fear of us that made the Austrians run away. Think of that, Gabby Souch!
[Matthew 6:8] Therefore do we make known unto You our love, in confessing unto You our own miseries and Your mercies upon us, that You may free us altogether, since You have begun, that we may cease to be wretched in ourselves, and that we may be blessed in You; since You have called us, that we may be poor in spirit, and meek, and mourners, and hungering and thirsty after righteousness, and merciful, and pure in heart, and peacemakers.
Every one knew that a tocsin bell to be duly rung, should be rung long and loud—not with a little merry jingle, such as befitted the announcement of a wedding, but in a manner to strike astonishment, if not alarm, into its hearers; and on this occasion great justice was done to the tocsin.
If any one should be tempted to unbelief, let him look at what occurs now near the tomb and the statue of Constantine , and then he must admit the truth of what God has said in the Scriptures, Them that honour Me I will honour, and they that despise Me shall be lightly esteemed.
And as regards the number seven, the case is similar: if, for example we divide 28 into 7, we have nothing over; for seven times four are 28, and nothing remains; (wherefore) they say that seven is the root.
It is a thousand pities that, in that matter, Brisket could not have seen his way.
“Oh, yes; very much. Nothing could be nicer. Only I am afraid it’s expensive.” This was a subject on which Caroline could talk to him.
“And where on hearth has the twelve hundred pounds gone?” asked the son, looking severely at the father.
Again He convicts them by a parable, intimating both their unreasonable obstinacy, and the submissiveness of those who were utterly condemned by them.
It was the solitude of her position which maddened her: its solitude, or the necessity of breaking that solitude by the presence of those who were odious to her.
And he wore no other beard, no tuft, no imperial, no moustachios; but when he was seen before shaving on a morning, he would seem to be black all over, and his hair was black, short, and harsh; and though black, round about his ears it was beginning to be tinged with grey.
“Well, as you ask me, I will. We’ll have nothing more said about the duke, either now or when he comes back; not a word. Let me see—he’s to be back;—when is it?”
For the Son is in the Father and the Father in the Son; since such as is the latter, such is the former, and such as is the former, such is the latter; and herein is the Unity.
[Acts 5:40] How were they persuaded?
Lady Mason remained at The Cleeve for something more than a week after that day on which she made her confession, during which time she was fully committed to take her trial at the next assizes at Alston on an indictment for perjury.
But the Squire had answered that he hadn’t got his Sunday face on, and had persevered.
It is hard to say why a good story should not have a fair chance of success whatever may be its bent; why it should not be reckoned to be good by its own intrinsic merits alone; but such is by no means the case.
“I’ve just been at the mill, and I didn’t see him.”
To Christ, as having glory, God is Father: to Christ, as being Jesus, God is God.
The chief stumbling-block in the passage is that the Son is said to be subject to the Father.
“I should hope not that, Walter.”
If he have any softness of heart, it will be necessary to him that love should bear a part in all these interests.
As says the prophet, Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool: what house will you build for me?
He would have to give up his friendship with the signora, his resistance to Mr. Harding, his antipathy—no, he found on mature self-examination that he could not bring himself to give up his antipathy to Dr. Grantly.
And in another place he says, forbearing threatening [Ephesians 6:9], wishing to make them more gentle; for those were perfect men; that is, with what measure you mete, it shall be measured unto you.
For if it be that a man seeks to find his rest in wealth, he is rendered proud rather than at ease.
Let us not then speak at random what comes into our mind.
Christ is illumined, let us shine forth with Him.
And now the more benevolent God is, the more impious men are; for He desires us from slaves to become sons, while they scorn to become sons.
Even though thou believe the body of the Christ to be real and bring it to the altar for transformation, and fail to distinguish the nature of the body and of the Godhead we shall say to you, 'If you offer rightly and fail to distinguish rightly, you sin, hold your peace.'
These instructions, concerning the building of churches were sent by the emperor to the bishops in every province: but what he wrote to Eusebius of Palestine respecting the preparation of some copies of the Scriptures, we may ascertain from the letters themselves:
Was he not willing to give up his fellowship, and the society of Lady Ongar, and everything else, for her sake?
He did not know on what footing, with reference to each other, his son and Lady Harcourt now stood; but he did know that they had loved each other, and been betrothed for years; he did know, also, that she had left her husband, and that that husband and his son had been the closest friends.
For frequent instruction to those who give heed, is salutary and profitable; but to those who are listless, it is injurious, and exceedingly perilous; for the oftener any one hears, the greater punishment does he draw upon himself, if he does not practise what is told him.
For since he had said, What have I to do with judging those without; lest any one should think that these were left unpunished, there is another tribunal which he sets over them, and that a fearful one.
But he, Mr. Western, had caught it altogether, and had believed it.
And, even at his age, Sir Henry might have been said to have done this had his aspirations been in any way moderate.
Is it not contrary to duty to take knowingly what has been got by a thief, so that he who has lost it is cheated out of it?
Look not at the poor man, that he comes to you filthy and squalid, but consider that Christ by him is setting foot in your house, and cease from your fierceness, and your relentless words, with which you are even aspersing such as come to you, calling them impostors, idle, and other names more grievous than these.
They got on to Baden,—with very little delay at Strasbourg, and found half an hotel prepared for their reception. Here the carriage was brought into use for the first time, and the mistress of the carriage talked of sending home for Dandy and Flirt. Mr Palliser, when he heard the proposition, calmly assured his wife that the horses would not bear the journey. “They would be so out of condition,” he said, “as not to be worth anything for two or three months.”
He was roused, and was disposed to make her know that, old as he was, and bald, and forced to wear awkward shoes, and to stump along heavily, still he could force her to become his wife and to minister to his wants.
But I know what many will retort to all that I have said; they will say, Why did you not lay down this rule for yourself as well?
Or whither shall I flee from Your presence?
And observe how logically He has joined together the spirit and the truth: He called God a Spirit, that He might distinguish Him from bodies; and He named Him the truth, to distinguish Him from a shadow or an image.
Lizzie regarded all this as romance.
129. Lastly, to prove that He spoke as man, He says: The Father that sent Me, He bears witness of Me. [John 8:18] But His testimony as God is true, as He Himself says: My record is true: for I know whence I come, and whither I go, but you know not whence I come, and whither I go. You judge after the flesh. [John 8:14-15] They judge then not after the Godhead but after the manhood, who think that Christ had not the power of bearing witness.
“I needn’t bring you with me, you know,” she said to Fitzgerald. “You can get over the stones easily, and I can go very well by myself.”
[1 Peter 3:22] And the Apostle Paul, writing to the Romans, says, It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God.
He that has seen me has seen the Father.
Then, lest this should seem to be laying down a law, he subjoins, [1 Corinthians 7:28] but if you marry, you have not sinned. He next alleges the existing state of things, the present distress, the shortness of the time, and the affliction. For marriage draws along with it many things, which indeed he has glanced at, as well here as also in the discourse about continence: there, by saying, the wife has not power over herself; and here, by the expression, You are bound.
How this had come to pass she did not think to inquire.
Then the gentleman thought that Miss Melmotte would be able to get through her troubles without much suffering.
Hence seeking is called sucking; for to those babes that seek the Word, the Father's breasts of love supply milk.
He was a short, stumpy man, with red cheeks and a round face; who was usually to be seen till dinnertime dressed in a very old shooting coat, with breeches, gaiters, and very thick shoes.
And the one indeed sits as judge of things that are open; yea, rather, not of all these even, but of such as can be fully proved; and ofttimes moreover, even in these deals treacherously , but this court instructs those that enter it that He that judges in our case, will bring forward all things naked and laid open, [Hebrews 4:13] before the common theatre of the world, and that to be hidden will be impossible.
Her mouth had all the richness of youth, and the full enticing curves and ruby colour of Anglo-Saxon beauty.
The gallant beast went at it bravely, slightly swerving from the fatal spot to which Peregrine had endeavoured once more to guide him, leaped with a full spring from the unworn turf, and, barely touching the bank, landed himself and his master lightly within the precincts of the wood.
Nor had I now any longer my wonted excuse, that as yet I hesitated to be above the world and serve You, because my perception of the truth was uncertain; for now it was certain.
He had become certain that her mad love for the man had perished.
Chapter 16. The Privation of Memory is Forgetfulness.
“And that was the truth?”
“Yes, I will. If it costs me an extra £50 I shan’t begrudge it. It shall be a sort of memorial building, a farmhouse of thanksgiving. I’ll make it as snug a place as there is about the property. It has made me wretched for these two years.”
For not only by leading into fornication can he destroy, but even by the contrary, the unmeasured sorrow following on the repentance for it.
This was effected by means of a few obscure bishops of that sect convening a Synod at the village of Pazum, which is situated near the sources of the river Sangarius; for there they framed a canon appointing its observance on the same day as that on which the Jews annually keep the feast of Unleavened Bread.
Enough!
But an Arian has no faith but this (close your ears, my hearers, that you may not be defiled by words so grossly impious), that the Father alone is very God, and that Jesus Christ our Saviour is a creature, and the Holy Ghost the Servant of both.
“Well, yes; lovely is a very strong word.”
I console and comfort him as best I can, by making myself surety for your mind, and assuring him that you will not continue thus to grieve us.
There was the great porter question still unsettled.
And it should be always remembered that Cicero spoke as an advocate, and that the praise and censure of an advocate require to be taken with many grains of salt.
But he mixed up this information with so much medical Latin, and was so pompous over it, and the bishop was so anxious to be rid of him, that his words did not have much effect.
But as soon as he found that his hopes were vain, that the Cheshire Cheese had been no steppingstone to such honour, and that his money had been spent for nothing, his mind reverted to its old form.
What are eternal years?
Therefore he says, And I, brethren, (again he uses the word brethren, to smooth down the harshness of the utterance,) came not with excellency of speech, declaring unto you the testimony of God.
“I have dined really. If I had remembered that you were going to display your cookery, I would have kept some of my energy, but I forgot it.”
But slavery has not caused it, seeing that other points of difference are to be found in every circumstance and feature of the two people.
You need not fear that.
Euhemerus relates that the same Uranus was the first who reigned on earth, using these words: In the beginning Cœlus first had the chief power on earth: he instituted and prepared that kingdom for himself together with his brothers.
At last they went;—but then, just as she was escaping, he put his hand upon her and reminded her of her appointment.
Some say that when he was about to depart, he said to John, 'I hope that you will not die a bishop': to which John replied, 'Expect not to arrive at your own country.'
‘Why not? Why should you not go out to Folking?’
If to swear is of the evil one, how great the penalty which false swearing will bring!
When he became Consul then he became a politician, and after that there was certainly no vacillation in his views.
But as for these answers which we have made to him, with the help of God, I admonish your Christian love, that you not only communicate them to those who seek for them, but also force them on those who show no longing for them.
”GENERAL POST OFFICE,
Had he been elected a member of the municipal corporation of Loughshane, instead of its representative in the British Parliament, Laurence Fitzgibbon could not have made less fuss about it.
“Who’s the oldest man in the parish?” asked Mr. Quickenham; “the oldest with his senses still about him.” The parson reflected for awhile, and then said that he thought Brattle, the miller, was as old a man as there was there, with the capability left to him of remembering and of stating what he remembered.
Mary assured her that she would not be provoked, and of course asked no more questions about Mary Scatcherd; nor did she think much more about it. It was not so however with her ladyship, who could not keep herself from reflecting that the old clergyman in the Close at Barchester certainly had but two sons, one of whom was now the doctor at Greshamsbury, and the other of whom had perished so wretchedly at the gate of that farmyard. Who then was the father of Mary Thorne?
“Josiah,” said his wife to him, when they were alone, “you will not refuse it?”
This, then, they doubted, and desired to know if John and Elijah were the same.
It seemed to him as though nothing but a spider could creep down that perpendicular abyss.
Now as to this abuse, we ourselves, after we had by God's permission acceded to the dignity of the episcopate, forbade it entirely in our Church, and by no means permitted the evil custom to be taken up anew, remembering that, when Abraham demanded for a price a sepulchre for the burial of his wife's body from the sons of Emor, that is from Ephron the son of Seor, the latter refused to accept a price, lest he should appear to have made profit out of a corpse [Genesis 23].
Hebrews 12:18-24
Had it not been that with a half obedience to his wife’s hints Michel said little about Adrian, there must have been an explosion.
Behold, you shall conceive, and shall bring forth a son, and shall call His name Jesus.
Containing an Answer to the Love Letter
What I called Timothy, that I call him also.
For he did not leave those of his own kind, and waste his labor on the irrational creatures, (an act of excessive vainglory and extreme folly,) but being clear of this as well as of other passions, he was earnest on one point only, that all the world might learn somewhat of the things which might profit it, and be able to translate it from earth to heaven.
He talked in such a way that there was no appearance of whispering, and yet the person to whom he spoke, and she only, could hear what he said.
“When you had found your diamonds, you thought of me,—was it not so?”
I am so stiff that I can’t sit upright, and everybody is cross to me, and everything is uncomfortable.
“That she shall do.”
His accusation of Verres was made on the same side in politics, and was carried on in opposition to Hortensius and the oligarchs.
It was quite in vain that Mr. Damer, at the top of his voice, shouted out something about “three dozen corruptible demagogues.” Mr. Ingram found it quite impossible to restrain his donkey so as to listen to the sarcasm.
“You told me he had been here but a minute.”
It is for her sake that I have been struggling from the first moment in which I knew that I was to be a mother.
I admitted to you formerly, that I and many others are of this opinion, and [believe] that such will take place, as you assuredly are aware; but, on the other hand, I signified to you that many who belong to the pure and pious faith, and are true Christians, think otherwise.
“I will take it for everything in all the world, Papa.”
In the first place, they conceived it to be good policy to abandon the custody of a man whom, if kept a prisoner, they were sure the Republic would make a great effort to liberate; and who, if he ever again served against them at all, would, as they thought, be less inclined to exercise barbarity than any other man whom the Convention would be likely to send on the duty.
“How long?”
Therefore, this irregularity must be corrected, in order that we may no more have any thing in common with those parricides and the murderers of our Lord.
At the head of the other party, from which through various denominations have sprung those who now call themselves Republicans, was Alexander Hamilton.
But then I have had my game of rounders.
Try, try to soften that hard heart.
I’m told they haven’t at all given it up,—only, unfortunately, they’ll never get back the necklace.” She sat there for about a quarter of an hour, and then, as she took her leave, she whispered a few words to Lizzie.
But Charity, when it shall have made itself perfect, will have destroyed this little trade of giving, which makes the giver vain and the receiver humble.
You will come.
Yea rather, let her hence feel confident, rather, that there is prepared for her a palm of greater glory, who feared not to be condemned, in case she were married, but desired to receive a more honorable crown, in that she was not married.
“But, dear aunt, the world will think it so odd, just at present.”
“De manifest infairiority of de tyrant saix——.”
And do we not rather love, because He has heard, or that He may hear?
A friend You have put far from me: and mine acquaintance from my misery [Psalm 87:18].
Life is a dream, and a scene; and as on the stage when the scene is shifted the various pageants disappear, and as dreams flit away when the sunbeams rise, so here when the end comes, whether the universal or that of each one, all is dissolved and vanishes away.
For this certainly they will not controvert nor impugn what we see with our eyes: so that when they say that no miracles took place, they inflict a worse stab upon themselves.
“Yes; the husband, Ferdinand Lefroy, the elder brother;—he of whom I had been told that he was dead; he was there standing before us, talking to us,—half drunk, but still well knowing what he was doing.”
what was she to do?
The young Squire should marry his daughter, or the whole transaction should be published to the world.
You’ll see, Martin; we’ll have the wake, and the funeral, and the docthor and all, on us—mind my words else.
How, then, did the image of Minerva remain standing?
I shall perhaps best describe a little incident that had occurred in Burton Crescent during the absence of our friend Eames, and the manner in which things were going on in that locality, by giving at length two letters which Johnny received by post at Guestwick on the morning after Mrs Dale’s party.
Or if, again, (the pseudo-prophetic spirit) has been eager to affect this (sentiment) in accordance with the Spirit of truth, it follows that the Spirit of truth has indeed the power of indulgently granting pardon to fornicators, but wills not to do it if it involve evil to the majority.
And besides these, how many monks were scourged, while Gregory sat by with Balacius the 'Duke!'
